Amazon Web Services (AWS) QuickSight is looking to hire talented front end development engineer to build world class experiences and services for our customers. AWS QuickSight is a fast, easy-to-use cloud-based, serverless Business Intelligence (BI) service designed for easy deployment to tens of thousands of users. As a fully-managed SaaS application, there’s no need to buy, manage and scale servers and no software to deploy and upgrade. QuickSight is deeply integrated with AWS data sources, allowing companies to deploy secure and scalable BI with their data on AWS.

We are looking for motivated Front-End Engineers with a proven track record of building web applications and services. This role offers wide scope, autonomy, and ownership. You’ll have a seat at the table and will be counted on to be an influential voice in decisions related to system architecture, feature development, and product strategy. We have an ambitious mission requiring an engineer with great judgment and a track record of building great customer experiences. You’ll have the opportunity to own, design and deliver highly scalable systems that will be used by internal and external enterprise customers to build, manage and serve beautiful, innovative features. We’re building a full-service, full-stack platform for end-users and other developers.

In this role you will make worldwide impact of how our customers around the world analyze and visualize data. If this sounds like a project you’ve been working towards and would like to deliver, please contact us today, and let’s talk about how you can be a part of it.

FrontEnd engineers in this role partner with the customers, stakeholders, product managers and UX designers to define and execute the product goals. You challenge yourself and others to constantly come up with better solutions. You're a thought leader, but you don't just know how to solve the problem, you prove it by building the solution. Last but not the least; you have a high bar for code quality and passion for design and architecture.

Responsibilities
Translate functional and technical requirements into detailed architecture/design/working software solutions by working with PM, UX designers, and customers.
Code and test system components; participate in code and design reviews.
Demonstrate ownership of end-to-end code quality, system tests, functional tests, and integration.
Partner/Collaborate across teams/roles to deliver results.
Be responsible for overall system architecture, scalability, reliability, and performance.
Mentor other engineers, define the technical culture, and help grow the team.
“Amazon is an Equal Opportunity-Affirmative Action Employer – Minority / Female / Disability / Veteran / Gender Identity / Sexual Orientation”


Basic Qualifications
Bachelor’s degree in Computer Science, Math or related field
3+ years of professional front end, web, or mobile software developing
Excellent verbal and written communication skills.
Strong analytical skills with excellent problem solving.
OO design and coding skills in Java
Proven track record of delivery
Solid coding practices including peer code reviews, unit testing, and a preference for agile development.
Preferred Qualifications
Passion for usability and creating efficient, scalable web interfaces.
Experience developing software using modern frameworks such as AngularJS, React, Spring or Node.
Sharp analytical abilities and proven design skills
Strong sense of collaboration, ownership, urgency, and drive
Experience successfully mentoring other engineers
Experience building large-scale web applications.
Demonstrated leadership abilities in an engineering environment in driving operational excellence and best practices.

Company - Amazon Web Services, Inc.
Amazon’s mission is to be the world’s most customer-centric company, and our homepage is how millions of customers begin their interactions with Amazon every day. We are a global team responsible for designing, developing and shipping one of the world’s best known websites. We start with the customer and work backwards in order to build great customer experiences for mobile phones, desktops and tablets (both applications and web). If you’ve ever visited an Amazon homepage and thought, “this is great” or “this could be better,” we’re the team to talk to.

As a key part of the UX design and development of our homepage platforms, our team is seeking an experienced Front-End Engineer. Your strong technical knowledge and drive will play a key role in creating the next generation of Amazon homepages. As a Front-End Engineer, you will build customer-facing software on top of a multi-tiered rendering platform, requiring a constant desire to raise the bar for today's shopping experience. This role requires ownership, autonomy, and an ability to deliver results. You have a passion for building intuitive, efficient, and beautiful web interfaces. You will be leading front-end, web development throughout the planning, design and development lifecycle for many unique and innovative user experience projects.

Amazon.com is an Equal Opportunity Employer – Minority / Women / Disability / Veteran / Gender Identity / Sexual Orientation / Age.


Basic Qualifications
5 years of experience as a front-end engineer, web developer, or similar role
Proficiency using modern web development technologies and techniques, including JavaScript, AJAX, HTML5, CSS, Responsive Design, web services, etc.
Experience developing AJAX interfaces with AJAX libraries and frameworks
Fast learner, enjoys a fast paced environment, and will unwaveringly drive issues to conclusions
Driven to provide the best customer experience
Preferred Qualifications
Solid knowledge of professional software engineering practices & best practices for the full software development life cycle, including coding standards, code reviews, source control management, build processes, testing, and operations
Experience in communicating with users, other technical teams, and management to collect requirements, describe software product features, and technical designs
Ability to technically lead project from design, scoping requirements through actual launch of the project
Experience with MVC design patterns and how they apply to web development
Outstanding written, presentation and communication skills, evangelism experience a plus
Bachelor's degree in web development, software engineering, computer science, or equivalent professional experience


We’re searching for a full-time, Austin-based Senior Front End Developer with the know-how, curiosity, and enthusiasm to thrive in a fast-paced work environment with hardworking peers.


As a valuable member of the Frog Pond, you’ll work in the Marketing Department with a team of designers, product specialists, and content creators. You’ll write clean HTML/CSS/JS for design comps and help carry them through to execution in our back-end templates. We’re looking for someone with a foundation in front end development as well as back-end capabilities. This person must have a strong attention to detail, as well as an ability to communicate clearly and effectively.


This position is based in Austin, Texas, and priority will be given to local applicants. A minimum of three years of professional experience is required.


Roles & Responsibilities

The Senior Front End Developer will report to the Design Director and work closely with the marketing and engineering teams in Austin to code native design files into back-end templates. He/she will coordinate between teams to help manage projects in accordance with priorities and deadlines. Candidate must be self-directed, but also be able to communicate within a team. The ability to meet deadlines and deliver results is a must!


Desired Skills & Experience


Must have:

Proficiency with HTML5
Extensive CSS3 skills
Excellent Javascript skills (we work in JQuery)
Ability to QA your own and others’ work across browsers and devices
Knowledge about responsive design and mobile-first practices
Ability to write clean, organized code that conforms to our existing standards
Attention to detail regarding design decisions
Minimum 3 years industry experience

Bonus skills:

Experience working within back-end systems
Ecommerce experience
JQuery, CommonJS or AMD libraries
Sass/Less
Knowledge of UX design principles
Desire and know-how to add “surprise and delight” moments to the UX

Technologies used:

Sketch, Adobe Creative Suite, Pycharm, GitHub, Codekit, Foundation framework, Browserstack


About Undercover Tourist

Undercover Tourist offers a generous pay and benefits package including fully covered health insurance. We want the best talent on our team, and we work hard to keep everyone hoppy! Our team is small, but we deliver big results while still leading a balanced life. You’ll enjoy flexible hours, free snacks and drinks, and Friday lunches with your coworkers.


Since 2000, Undercover Tourist has provided authentic attraction tickets at discounted prices along with excellent customer service. Families trust us to provide them with tools and tips for a great vacation. We take our mission—but not ourselves—too seriously. We’ve had over a million downloads of our top-rated Orlando Wait Times App! We help families save time and money on their vacation to Walt Disney World Resort, Universal Orlando Resort, Universal Studios Hollywood, SeaWorld Orlando, SeaWorld San Diego, Legoland Florida, Legoland California and more. We offer discounts on car rentals and hotels to Orlando, Los Angeles, San Diego and ski destinations! Discounted rates, free shipping and flexible refund policies make Undercover Tourist the trusted name in attraction tickets.


Please visit www.undercovertourist.com/careers/ to apply.


Applicants must be authorized to work in the U.

At Cloudflare, we have our eyes set on an ambitious goal: to help build a better Internet. Today the company runs one of the world’s largest networks that powers trillions of requests per month. Cloudflare protects and accelerates any Internet application online without adding hardware, installing software, or changing a line of code. Internet properties powered by Cloudflare have all web traffic routed through its intelligent global network, which gets smarter with every request. As a result, they see significant improvement in performance and a decrease in spam and other attacks. Cloudflare was recognized by the World Economic Forum as a Technology Pioneer and named to Entrepreneur Magazine’s Top Company Cultures list.

We realize people do not fit into neat boxes. We are looking for curious and empathetic individuals who are committed to developing themselves and learning new skills, and we are ready to help you do that. We cannot complete our mission without building a diverse and inclusive team. We hire the best people based on an evaluation of their potential and support them throughout their time at Cloudflare. Come join us!

About The Department

Cloudflare’s Engineering Team builds and runs the software that handles requests on the Internet today. We also build and run the internal tools that builds and runs our software. The Engineering Team is split into two groups: one handles product development and the other handles operations. Product development covers both new features and functionality and scaling our existing software to meet the challenges of a massively growing customer base. The operations team handles one of the world’s largest networks with data centers in 102 cities worldwide.

What You'll Do

We are looking for experienced front-end engineers to join our team. The ideal candidates will have experience working with large-scale applications and a track record of producing great output. You must care deeply not only about the quality of your and the team's code, but also the customer experience. We have growing front-end needs, so we’re looking for highly motivated individuals that are excited to join a team and work with product and content owners, designers, and other software engineers to build and scale services at Cloudflare.

We believe that a great design is at the heart of any successful product and you will work closely with our design/UX team and must be comfortable seeking feedback from non-technical sources. We work iteratively and deploy often (sometimes several times per day). We are also strong believers in dog-fooding our own products. From cache configuration to Cloudflare Access to Cloudflare Workers, these are all tools in our frontend engineer's tool belt.

Technologies we use include Node, React, Redux, TypeScript, ES6, Webpack, Fela, Jest, Enzyme, Puppeteer, D3, and more.

We have many teams that build and maintain user interfaces. :
Load Balancing
This team owns our load balancing product end-to-end—from the core functionality at our edge, to internal systems and pipelines, to the configuration and reporting UI available in our customer dashboard.
Billing
Building and maintaining the systems and interfaces that define our product offering, the control mechanisms for giving customers access to those products, and the overall purchase experience.
Security Engineering
Has ownership of our TLS offerings (Universal SSL, Dedicated Certificates, etc), the series of pipelines that drive certificate ordering, issuance, and deployments to our edge, along with the customer UIs to manage it all.
User & Account Security/Management
This team owns the foundational data models that power the Cloudflare dashboard, which involves building and maintaining solutions for both our end-user and engineers on other teams. Whether it's building granular access control policies or different user authentication methods, the impact is far reaching.
Data & Analytics
Owns the core analytics product offered by Cloudflare (and all of the underlying data pipelines). This mission is to expose valuable data and actionable insights to our customers.
Marketing Engineering
Builds and maintains www.cloudflare.com powered by a headless CMS to host the content. We then deliver the content and have built support for automated translation of the content . Also builds microsites as requested for special projects.
UI Platform
Responsible for building, documenting, and supporting the underlying tools, systems, and patterns that enables Cloudflare engineers to make UIs. Both developer and customer experience are driving forces.

Desirable Skills And Experience

Note: it is not required that you have all of these! Teams have varying needs, focuses, and use varying technologies.
BA/BS in Computer Science or equivalent
Minimum of 2+ years experience building web applications
Strong knowledge of HTML, CSS, and JavaScript
Understanding of responsive design and its implementation
Experience building and shipping production React.js applications
Extensive knowledge of the JavaScript ecosystem
Ability to work in cross-functional teams
Good analytical and debugging skills
Unit/integration testing experience
Experience working with and/or designing RESTful APIs
Working knowledge of internationalization, localization, and/or accessibility
Expertise with TypeScript

What Makes Cloudflare Special?

We’re not just a highly ambitious, large-scale technology company. We’re a highly ambitious, large-scale technology company with a soul. Fundamental to our mission to help build a better Internet is protecting the free and open Internet.

Project Galileo : We equip politically and artistically important organizations and journalists with powerful tools to defend themselves against attacks that would otherwise censor their work, technology already used by Cloudflare’s enterprise customers--at no cost.

Project Athenian : We created Athenian Project to ensure that state and local governments have the highest level of protection and reliability for free, so that their constituents have access to election information and voter registration.

Path Forward Partnership : Since 2016, we have partnered with Path Forward, a nonprofit organization, to create 16-week positions for mid-career professionals who want to get back to the workplace after taking time off to care for a child, parent, or loved one.

1.1.1.1 : We released 1.1.1.1 to help fix the foundation of the Internet by building a faster, more secure and privacy-centric public DNS resolver. This is available publicly for everyone to use - it is the first consumer-focused service Cloudflare has ever released. Here’s the deal - we don’t store client IP addresses never, ever. We will continue to abide by our privacy policy and ensure that no user data is sold to advertisers or used to target consumers.

Sound like something you’d like to be a part of? We’d love to hear from you!

Cloudflare is proud to be an equal opportunity employer. We are committed to providing equal employment opportunity for all people and place great value in both diversity and inclusiveness. All qualified applicants will be considered for employment without regard to their, or any other person's, perceived or actual race, color, religion, sex, gender, gender identity, gender expression, sexual orientation, national origin, ancestry, citizenship, age, physical or mental disability, medical condition, family care status, or any other basis protected by law. We are an AA/Veterans/Disabled Employer.

Cloudflare provides reasonable accommodations to qualified individuals with disabilities. Please tell us if you require a reasonable accommodation to apply for a job. Examples of reasonable accommodations include, but are not limited to, changing the application process, providing documents in an alternate format, using a sign language interpreter, or using specialized equipment. If you require a reasonable accommodation to apply for a job, please contact us via e-mail at hr@cloudflare.com or via mail at 101 Townsend St. San Francisco, CA 94115.
Seniority Level
Associate

Industry
Information Technology & Services Internet Computer & Network Security
Employment Type
Full-time

Job Functions
Engineering

Want to help scale Amazon’s fulfillment workforce motivating them with incredible user experiences while keeping them safe and making them happy? Join the Amazon Fulfillment User Experience team – we are hiring a Front-End Engineer who is passionate about the intersection of the physical and the virtual world transcending beyond what is shown on a screen to include the physical environment, building layout, industrial lighting and sound to drive millions of Fulfillment Center Operators to come into work every day and deliver unparalleled Amazon customer experience to retail buying customers.
Our group is multidisciplinary and includes designers, researchers, technologists, and inventors. We only hire the best, and we invest in each of our team members by mentoring, coaching and helping them build their unique careers.
In this role you will work closely with software engineering and UX Designers to build out our design system to work on various devices and displays. You will be an advocate for the user and liaison between development teams and the UX/Business team to bring these experiences to life. You'll enable the developers to build solutions faster and following usability best practices. You'll partner with product management, UX professionals and others to prioritize and work on highest priority experiences.


Basic Qualifications

BASIC QUALIFICATIONS
Bachelor’s Degree in Computer Science or a related field, or 6+ years relevant work experience
4+ years working with HTML, CSS, JavaScript
Proficient in 1 or more core languages (e.g. Java, C++, Python, Ruby, and Node.js)
Proficient in 1 or more version control software platforms (e.g. git, Subversion, Mercurial)
Ability to convert a design document into a working user interface with no loss in fidelity
Knowledge of usability principles, cross-browser compatibility, and HTML document architecture
Experience developing front-end software, with deep experience in one or more relevant front-end frameworks (React, Vue, Webcomponents, etc.)
Proficient in view layout and rendering technologies (e.g., responsiveness, progressive enhancement, browser/device support). Knows when it is appropriate to make graceful fallbacks.
Experience building accessible software that adheres to varying levels of WCAG 2.0
Experience working with or building APIs and middleware

Preferred Qualifications

PREFERRED QUALIFICATIONS
Passion for creating efficient, scalable, highly usable web interfaces
Excited about technology, have a strong interest in learning about and playing with the latest technologies and building compelling web applications and UI
Work well in teams, respecting and welcoming ideas from partners, business stakeholders, and technical experts
Strong customer focus, ownership, urgency and drive
Design expertise and experience with UI and workflow prototyping tools
Amazon is an Equal Opportunity-Affirmative Action Employer - Minority / Female / Disability / Veteran / Gender Identity / Sexual Orientation

Are you a talented Front End Engineer with a passion for creating great user experiences and deep expertise in single-page Javascript frameworks like Angular or React? Are you excited about building websites that will be used by millions of people each year? Do you love movies? If you answered yes to all these questions, we have the perfect job for you.

Alamo Drafthouse is looking for a design-oriented Front End Engineer to help us create the best online experience in the cinema industry. As a Front End Engineer on our team, you will be responsible for adding innovative new features to drafthouse.com and our other web applications, most of which are built using AngularJS or transitioning to Angular 4+.

We are a small team, where each team member has a lot of autonomy. To thrive in our environment, you must be a self-directed engineer with a high quality bar that can own complex features from cradle to grave. Alamo Drafthouse is obsessed with creating amazing guest experiences, so you must have a fanatical attention to detail and be able to implement a user interface with pixel-perfect precision.

The Front End Developer’s Primary Responsibilities Include
Own a feature from design to deployment, using your passion and skills to deliver a high quality experience for our guests. This will include providing feedback to the UX team, collaborating with the backend team to design the appropriate APIs, developing reusable components, planning for and testing all edge cases, and participating in design and code reviews along the way.
Delivering high performance on both mobile and desktop while producing an app that is highly usable and ADA compliant.
Assisting with support and maintenance of our web apps. This can sometimes mean working with our guests or internal users to reproduce a bug or develop a workaround. When a critical bug is discovered, we will count on you to squash it quickly so that our guests are not affected for long.
Coaching and mentoring other team members while willing to be coached and mentored yourself.


Requirements

We have high expectations at Alamo Drafthouse. As a member of a small team, you must be very self-directed, able to operate without much oversight, and know when to ask for help. The ideal candidate will have the following qualifications
A computer science degree (or similar) from a top-notch university.
A minimum of 4 years technical experience building single page web applications using a framework such as Angular or React. You should be able to write HTML, CSS and Vanilla JavaScript in your sleep, and ideally have a deep knowledge of Angular best practices and commonly used modules.
Complete commitment to delivering a world-class user experience and willingness to go the extra mile to deliver it.
An “eye for design” and a demonstrated history of working with a design team to deliver pixel perfect implementations of their designs. Ability to “fill in the gaps” of a design, adding hover states and other interactive elements when none are provided by the designer.
Self starter who can execute with minimal direction; Highly self-motivated and self-directed.
A friendly, collaborative team member who can leave their ego at the door and contribute more to the culture of the team than just code.
Permanent legal right to work in the United States; we will not consider candidates that require visa sponsorship.


Benefits

Our benefits program includes Medical, Dental, and Vision, along with company paid leave policies, disability and life policies . Alamo has a generous PTO leave and a flexible work environment. If you enjoy movies, food, and beer, this is the place for you.

Deloitte is looking for a Front End Developer to join its team in Austin! You will be supporting a large state project with many professionals with tons of room for growth.

Required Qualifications
2-10 years’ experience building modern apps/sites in a professional environment
At least two years in HTML5 and CSS3, and Angular
At least two years with JavaScript, jQuery, and AJAX
At least one year experience with React


Preferred Qualifications
Experience coding in one or more of the following Java, JavaScript (AngularJS,, JQuery, Node), HTML, CSS,
Experience developing in one or more frameworks including; Spring, Struts, Flex, Grails, Hibernate, or .Net
Experience scripting in Perl, Ruby, or Python
Experience using development tools/libraries such as Maven, Git, Adobe Creative Suite, Junit, or Jasmine
Experience in one or more of the following;
CGI Scripting
Comet
Alfresco
Apache Software to include; Lucene, Tomcat, Casandra, Hadoop
JSON, HTML5, XHTML
Atlassian Suite (Confluence, JIRA, BitBucket/Stash)
Agile systems development experience (e.g. Scrum, XP, Lean, Kanban).
Development of web service architectures and RESTful exposure of data (REST, SOAP, WSDL)
Understanding and implementation of cloud architecture/technologies, 2-tier architectures, 3-tier architectures, distributed architectures


How You’ll Grow

At Deloitte, our professional development plan focuses on helping people at every level of their career to identify and use their strengths to do their best work every day. From entry-level employees to senior leaders, we believe there’s always room to learn. We offer opportunities to help sharpen skills in addition to hands-on experience in the global, fast-changing business world. From on-the-job learning experiences to formal development programs at Deloitte University, our professionals have a variety of opportunities to continue to grow throughout their career. Explore Deloitte University, The Leadership Center.

Benefits

At Deloitte, we know that great people make a great organization. We value our people and offer employees a broad range of benefits. Learn more about what working at Deloitte can mean for you.

Deloitte’s culture

Our positive and supportive culture encourages our people to do their best work every day. We celebrate individuals by recognizing their uniqueness and offering them the flexibility to make daily choices that can help them to be healthy, centered, confident, and aware. We offer well-being programs and are continuously looking for new ways to maintain a culture where our people excel and lead healthy, happy lives. Learn more about Life at Deloitte.

Corporate citizenship

Deloitte is led by a purpose: to make an impact that matters. This purpose defines who we are and extends to relationships with our clients, our people and our communities. We believe that business has the power to inspire and transform. We focus on education, giving, skill-based volunteerism, and leadership to help drive positive social impact in our communities. Learn more about Deloitte’s impact on the world.

Recruiter tips

We want job seekers exploring opportunities at Deloitte to feel prepared and confident. To help you with your interview, we suggest that you do your research: know some background about the organization and the business area you’re applying to. Check out recruiting tips from Deloitte professionals.

kwdeldigengineerusa

kwdeldigallddusa

As used in this posting, “Deloitte” means Deloitte Consulting LLP, a subsidiary of Deloitte LLP. Please see www.deloitte.com/us/about for a detailed description of the legal structure of Deloitte LLP and its subsidiaries. Certain services may not be available to attest clients under the rules and regulations of public accounting.

All qualified applicants will receive consideration for employment without regard to race, color, religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, national origin, age, disability or protected veteran status, or any other legally protected basis, in accordance with applicable law.
SparkCognition is an AI leader that offers business-critical solutions for customers in energy, oil and gas, manufacturing, finance, aerospace, defense, and security. A highly awarded company recognized for cutting-edge technology, SparkCognition develops AI-powered, cyber-physical software for the safety, security, reliability, and optimization of IT, OT, and the Industrial IoT.

SparkCognition is seeking a frontend software engineer for our Natural Language Processing product - DeepNLP. The frontend developer will be part of an integrated team that includes data scientists, software engineers, and automation engineers. DeepNLP can read natural language content directly from documents or from tables (like customer support tickets, emails, maintenance records exported from a database) and enable subject matter experts to automate extraction and/or categorization of information into a structured data set.

Our DeepNLP product team values ownership, collaboration, integrity, humility, innovation, and putting the customer first (internal and external stakeholders). If you enjoy working in a collaborative team setting where learning is at the forefront of every workday, listening and asking the question why is always in your thought process, consistently raising the bar to deliver quality products to our customers, and enjoy having fun throughout this entire journey - this position could be just what you are looking for!

Responsibilities
Work directly with the product team and take direction from Frontend lead
Ownership of work items. "I'm not done, until we are done" attitude.
Help create and finalize acceptance criteria for a feature in software development life cycle
Consistently share learnings with team (successes and failures)
Enjoy building and delivering quality products to customers; put yourself in the customer's shoes
Are able to balance timely deliveries with delivering what the business needs
Self-starter and enjoy having fun working in a collaborative environment
Value communication (written, verbal)
Attention to detail and understand priority and severity levels of issues raised from test team members
Test-driven

Qualifications
2 to 5 years of related experience
Experience w/ Typescript
Strong CSS skillset, particularly in flexbox, grid
Experience in Angular 5-7 and RXJS
Experience in frontend ops (Webpack, Husky, etc)
Experience in Unit testing / Jest
Experience in React 16+ a plus
Previous work with SVG or related libraries (D3, P5, paper) a plus
Experience with Python a plus
Experience with Solr a plus
Familiarity w/ Data Science or Machine learning a plus

SparkCognition is an equal opportunity employer. All qualified applicants will receive consideration for employment without regard to race, color, religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity and/or expression, national origin, protected veteran status, disability or genetics and will not be discriminated against on the basis of such characteristics or any other status protected by the laws or regulations in the locations where we operate. If you need assistance or an accommodation due to a disability, you may contact us at accommodations@sparkcognition.com.

Connect with work that matters. Be a part of transforming the healthcare industry!

We are looking for a Lead Front End Developer to join our Scheduling Development team. Your job will be to lead a team of engineers, mentoring and defining technical designs, working toward our product goals. But enough about us; let’s talk about you.

If you have a pulse on modern front-end frameworks, experience in building and designing front-end applications in React, we would love to hear from you.
 
The Team:  Our consumer-focused Scheduling application team aims to bring a marketplace experience to healthcare, allowing patients to feel empowered in their healthcare decisions.

Job Responsibilities
Write, debug, and deploy code to production; deliver timely fixes
Proactively identify and proposes new, alternative technology in order to create scalable implementations and achieve results.
Deliver customer value in the form of high-quality software components and services in adherence with RPR policies on Security, performance, longevity and Integration testing.
Adhere to DOD (story definition of done) as part of the sprint, including unit tests, functional testing, code reviews, no regressions, bug fixes, documentation and adhere to best coding practices.
Provide technical direction to team members

Typical Qualifications
7 + years of experience in front end development using JavaScript frameworks
Bachelor’s Degree or equivalent and experience in an Agile environment
3+ years of experience with Reac t and Redux
Experience creating test frameworks
Aiding the development of front-end architecture
Ability to write code that is technically sound, performant, scalable, and readable

About Athenahealth
Our Vision: To create a thriving ecosystem that delivers accessible, high-quality, and sustainable healthcare for all.
Our Location : This role is located in downtown Austin, TX in the historic Seaholm Power Plant building.
Our Culture: At athenahealth, our employees (or “ athenistas ”) are committed to making healthcare smarter. Our success is dependent on the diversity, collective spirit, and contributions of our people, clients and partners. We value teamwork and believe that the strength of our team comes from supporting each other and leveraging our specialized skills. If you are looking for company that will enable you to work outside of your comfort zone to transform the healthcare ecosystem, athenahealth is the place for you.
Our Perks : Along with health & financial benefits, our athenistas are offered a variety of perks that promote employee wellbeing such as commuter support, collaborative workspaces and dog-friendly offices - just to name a few.

athenahealth is committed to a policy of equal employment opportunity—that’s why we recruit and hire applicants without regard to race, color, religion, sex (including pregnancy), national origin, disability, age, sexual orientation, veteran status, genetic information, gender identity, gender expression, or any other factor prohibited by law. We’re happy to provide a reasonable accommodation, for those with a disability, to complete any part of the application process. If you are unable to access or use this online application process and need an alternative method for applying, please contact us at

We are looking for a front end engineer who will be responsible for developing and maintaining our shopping experience on Shopify, as well as other web properties. The ideal candidate would have a passion for and knowledge of shopify development and/or shopping in general. The candidate would also have a proven track record of shopify and web application development to support and fulfill our strategic objectives. We are looking for someone who is passionate about building great software, enjoys working with a team of talented developers, and who is eager to take on big challenges.

Responsibilities
Maintain the shopify store, integrations with 3rd parties, any development needed for specific product drops
Work with other client teams to develop and maintain existing platform for VOD and Community
Write well designed, testable, efficient code by using best software development practices
Help in planning and delivering software platforms used across multiple products and organizational units

Qualifications
BSCS or related field with 3+ years (6+ years without) of practical engineering experience in building and running web applications
Experience with Shopify development
Experience creating cross-browser compatible web-based UI’s utilizing JavaScript, CSS, and HTML
Experience with data transmission using AJAX, JSON, XML
Experience with React JavaScript framework
Experience working with Service Oriented Architecture and RESTful web services
Knowledge of Responsive Design fundamentals
Experience with one or more Automated UI testing frameworks (Karma, Mocha, Selenium, Jest, etc.)
Understanding of web technologies (HTTP, web servers (Nginx, Apache)
Ability to turn mockups from designers into code
Understanding of client-side performance, how to evaluate and how to debug
Build and bundling tools (Gulp, Grunt, Webpack)
Excellent verbal and written communication skills
Object Oriented Design and data structure knowledge
Multitasking skills, ability to pay attention to detail and maintaining focus under a fast paced environment

Bonus
Experience working in an Agile environment
Experience with multiple Javascript frameworks such as Angular, Backbone, or Vue.js
Continuous integration and deployment pipelines
State Containers for Javascript applications (Redux)
NodeJS, Express Framework
CSS preprocessors
Experience with websockets or pub/sub technology
Experience with mobile development (iOS, Android)
Benefits + Perks:
100% Company paid health & dental benefits
Use What You Need paid time off
401(k) with a company match
Catered meal on Mondays
Opportunity for career growth
Flexible dress code
Kitchen stocked with snacks
Pet Friendly

About Rooster Teeth

Rooster Teeth is a pioneering media and entertainment company responsible for some of the biggest online series in history, such as the award-winning and longest-running web series, Red vs. Blue. They also produce the globally acclaimed animated series RWBY, the first western anime series to be distributed in Japan; the award-winning Rooster Teeth Podcast; and Immersion, a reality format that brings video game theory to the real world. Rooster Teeth has a massive global footprint of more than 45 million subscribers to its YouTube Network, 5 million unique monthly visitors to its RoosterTeeth.com hub and 3 million registered community members. The company was founded in 2003, and is a subsidiary of Otter Media, a WarnerMedia company. Discover more at RoosterTeeth.com.
We are a financial technology company developing a platform focused on innovating the
transaction processes for complex financing transactions. Our platform will revolutionize capital
raising and trading to create new value in the financial ecosystem.
We are currently operating in stealth mode, discussing collaborative partnerships with major
financial institutions, companies and others in the finance ecosystem. We have secured
investments from major financial technology investors, including a global financial institution and
are commencing a beta launch of our platform with a few global financial institutions and
companies.
Role Description
You will be collaborating with our head of front-end engineering, CEO and designers to develop
and implement innovative, dynamic, interactive interfaces, features and frameworks in which to
show deconstructed, digital data from complex finance documents. We are looking to push the
boundaries on how sophisticated professionals in the investment banking ecosystem review,
analyze and calibrate data and documents. In addition, the role also includes the following

Responsibilities
Development of reusable code and libraries for future use
Ensuring the technical feasibility of UI/UX designs
Optimizing application for maximum speed and scalability
Skills, Qualifications And Experience

The ideal candidate will have at least 4 years’ experience in a startup environment or a
design/creative team from a business/commercial environment. In particular, the candidate will

Have
Proficient understanding of web markup, including HTML5, CSS3
Basic understanding of server-side CSS pre-processing platforms, such as LESS and SASS
Proficient understanding of client-side scripting and JavaScript frameworks
Experience with Vue / Vuex
Experience with asynchronous request handling, partial page updates, and AJAX
Knowledge of image authoring tools, to be able to crop, resize, or perform small adjustments
on an image. Familiarity with tools such as as Gimp or Photoshop is a plus.
Experience with cross-browser compatibility issues and ways to work around them.
Experience with code versioning tools, such as Git, Github, Bitbucket
D3.js experience is a plus
Experience working with common project management tools and Agile development workflow
The role is not remote and will need to be based in Manhattan, New York or Austin, Texas.
Equity may be considered for the right candidate

GitHub is changing the way the world builds software, and we want you to help build GitHub! We’re looking for an experienced full-stack software engineer to join a passionate, adaptive, and distributed group of engineers working to improve the ideation, organization, and focus of the world’s software development teams. The Projects team builds project management tools to help modern software teams collaboratively workflow their ideas into GitHub, then into code, and tracked through to production.

You’ll work with our team of engineers, designers, and product managers to build and maintain customer-facing experiences and deliver them into the hands of millions of developers across the world.

Responsibilities:
Write, review and maintain code primarily in Ruby and JavaScript (React, TypeScript)
Write architecture briefs and proposals, carry out code experiments, and build prototypes to learn how we can achieve planetary scale with our systems
Own both customer and developer happiness for your products in production, working with your own and other teams to build operational transparency and resiliency into every layer of deployed applications
Coordinate with engineering and product leads to define, prioritize, and task projects that help us meet business objectives
Document the systems you help build
Work with support to triage and debug technical support requests
Own and advocate for the health and quality of the systems that the team builds, participate in an on-call rotation and respond to incidents as necessary
Provide technical leadership, mentorship, pairing opportunities, and code reviews to encourage the growth of others



Minimum Qualifications:
At least five years building web applications in production
Two+ years Ruby on Rails experience
Experience with SQL and general database knowledge
Experience with JavaScript and front-end client libraries like React
Solid knowledge of testing principles
At least 1 year of remote work experience on a software team
Strong communication skills -- you speak and write clearly. We’re a distributed team so we’re extra mindful about communication.



Preferred Qualifications: 
Experience building project management software
Experience with search technologies like Elasticsearch
Experience with distributed databases at scale
Experience with streaming data pipelines
Experience with telemetry systems (e.g. Datadog, Sentry, VividCortex, Splunk)



Who We Are:

GitHub is the developer company. We make it easier for developers to be developers: to work together, to solve challenging problems, and to create the world’s most important technologies. We foster a collaborative community that can come together—as individuals and in teams—to create the future of software and make a difference in the world.

Leadership Principles:

Customer Obsessed - Trust by Default - Ship to Learn - Own the Outcome - Growth Mindset - Global Product, Global Team - Anything is Possible - Practice Kindness

Why You Should Join:

At GitHub, we constantly strive to create an environment that allows our employees (Hubbers) to do the best work of their lives. We've designed one of the coolest workspaces in San Francisco (HQ), where many Hubbers work, snack, and create daily. The rest of our Hubbers work remotely around the globe. Check out an updated list of where we can hire here: https://github.com/about/careers/remote

We are also committed to keeping Hubbers healthy, motivated, focused and creative. We've designed our top-notch benefits program with these goals in mind. In a nutshell, we've built a place where we truly love working, we think you will too.

GitHub is made up of people from a wide variety of backgrounds and lifestyles. We embrace diversity and invite applications from people of all walks of life. We don't discriminate against employees or applicants based on gender identity or expression, sexual orientation, race, religion, age, national origin, citizenship, disability, pregnancy status, veteran status, or any other differences. Also, if you have a disability, please let us know if there's any way we can make the interview process better for you; we're happy to accommodate!

Please note that benefits vary by country. If you have any questions, please don't hesitate to ask your Talent Partner.

Medallia’s mission is to help companies win through customer experience. The world’s best-loved brands trust Medallia’s Experience Cloud™, which embeds the pulse of the customer in an organization and empowers employees with the real-time customer data, insights, and tools they need to make every experience great. Named a leader in the most recent Forrester Wave and ranked in the 2018 Forbes Cloud 100 list, Medallia is growing quickly, with a global footprint that spans Silicon Valley, Austin, New York, Washington DC, London, Paris, Sydney, Buenos Aires, and Tel Aviv. Here, we value people for each of the aspects that make them whole. We believe that people should not be defined only by a job title—nobody is "just an engineer" or "just a salesperson." We are each partners, parents, children, siblings, friends, and former classmates. We have different backgrounds and we celebrate different cultures. And, just like our product, we honor each of the experiences that build our people.

At Medallia we hire the whole person, not just a part of them.

Medallia is the global leader in Customer Experience Management. Our mission is to create a world where companies are loved by their customers; where organizations see you as a person and not just their next sale. We do this by building a bridge between hundreds of companies and billions of customers, around the world, enabling access to your eyes, ears, and hearts, so they may design and deliver extraordinary experiences, every single day.

Medallia Engineering is a global, no­-nonsense and flat organization where the best ideas are implemented, no matter where they come from. We’ve got a culture focused on smarts, kindness, continual learning, and feedback… and our people love it. Come find out why!

The Role

As a Senior Software Engineer at Medallia, you will be joining our Reporting team, whose responsibility is to rebuild (and scale) the face of our flagship reporting product -- the platform that tells stories out of the insane amount of data each client receives, and incites action to impact customer experiences. The most exciting part is that Medallia is just at the beginning of our journey! You’ll specialize in building responsive and elegant user interfaces that scale to hundreds of thousands of users. Be a part of the movement that is driving Medallia to even greater heights!

Responsibilities
Work closely with Product and Design teams to design and implement complex user interfaces and user-facing features for the next generation CEM product.
Develop new user-facing features, interactive visualizations, and customer-driven enhancements to our Core Platform.
Create fast, easy to use UI components that can be implemented quickly and seamlessly to support diverse clients.
Participate in a thriving Front-End Engineering community, helping shape mid/long-term technical roadmap and FE architecture patterns for the global Engineering organization.
Support a team of junior to mid-level engineers through mentorship and technical leadership.

Our Engineering Culture
We don’t expect to be perfect, but we are always proactively seeking out ways to help ourselves and our teams to minimize pain points within our infrastructure and code base.
We love technology -- and follow the latest technologies, sharing what we learn.
We are not afraid of failing when we are experimenting with different technologies, development methodologies, and toolings.
We build strong relationships with team members around the globe.

Minimum Qualifications
Bachelors in CS, Engineering, or related technical field. In lieu, relevant equivalent work experience.
4+ years of delivering customer-facing web apps using a modern web stack. Our enterprise applications are built in React, with modern libraries like Apollo, Typescript, and JEST.
Proven proficiency in Javascript - functional programming, promises, closure.
Experience building microservices using Node, preferably supporting GraphQL.
Experience ensuring the technical feasibility of UI/UX design.
Previous experience with agile process, inclusive of ability to work in fast-paced and distributed teams.
Experience mentoring and leading other engineers (and enjoys it).

Preferred Qualifications
Masters in CS, Engineering, or other advanced degree.
Experience with: ES6/7, NodeJS, GraphQL, Docker, CSS-in-JS techniques.
Bring an ownership mindset with quality orientation and DevOps experience.
Demonstrate strong software engineering fundamentals.

At Medallia, we don’t just accept difference - we celebrate it and recognize the value it brings to our customers and employees. Medallia is proud to be an equal opportunity workplace and is an affirmative action employer. Equal opportunity and consideration are afforded to all qualified applicants and employees. We won't unlawfully discriminate on the basis of gender identity or expression, race, ethnicity, religion, national origin, age, sex, marital status, physical or mental disability, Veteran status, sexual orientation, and any other category protected by law.

Medallia is committed to working with and providing reasonable accommodation to applicants with disabilities in accordance with the American Disabilities Act and state disability laws.

At Medallia, we don’t just accept difference—we celebrate it and recognize the value it brings to our customers and employees. Medallia is proud to be an equal opportunity workplace and is an affirmative action employer. Equal opportunity and consideration are afforded to all qualified applicants and employees. We won't unlawfully discriminate on the basis of gender identity or expression, race, ethnicity, religion, national origin, age, sex, marital status, physical or mental disability, Veteran status, sexual orientation, and any other category protected by law. We also consider all qualified applicants regardless of criminal histories, consistent with legal requirements.

Medallia is committed to working with and providing reasonable accommodation to applicants with disabilities in accordance with the American Disabilities Act and local disability laws.

At Fivestars, our mission is to help businesses and communities thrive by turning every transaction into a relationship. Over 50 million people use Fivestars to get rewarded at more than 14,000 local businesses with one rewards program. Local businesses use Fivestars to bring more customers into their stores with an all-in-one marketing and payments program. Fivestars drives over $3 billion in local commerce across its network per year. Fivestars has raised $105 million from HarbourVest, Menlo Ventures, Lightspeed, DCM, Y-Combinator, and others. Together, let’s love local. Visit www.fivestars.com for more information.

As part of the Engineering team at Fivestars, our mission is to deliver applications that impact and improve the day to day lives of small business owners and consumers using our products across our network. In this role, you’ll plan, design, and implement new features in our merchant and consumer applications, impacting both our in and out of store experiences.

You’re an experienced, Full Stack developer with a good background in Javascript who demonstrates a high level of curiosity and keeps up with the latest technologies. You have developed and maintained multiple Full Stack web applications throughout the entirety of their lifecycle. You have a strong eye for software design. You want to tackle tough technical challenges and have a desire to impact local businesses and communities.

Responsibilities
Maintain a high level of quality in our codebases through well-written automated tests, good architecture and code review practices
Own, design and code product initiatives from start to finish
Work collaboratively with designers, PMs & QA to ensure our products are the best they can be
Always be shipping software


Requirements
B.S. or greater in Computer Science or a related field (math, physics, engineering) and strong CS fundamentals
At least 10 years of experience including work with modern JavaScript - we use Angular, React, but if you have a strong eye for clean modular code then you will fit right in
Strong team player - we work in small product teams that work very closely together and are constantly collaborating in order to move as fast as possible
Experience and/or interest in semantic HTML/CSS. If this makes you cringe and yearn for something better then we want you

Fivestars provides equal employment opportunities (EEO) to all employees and applicants for employment without regard to race, color, religion, sex, national origin, age, disability or genetics. In addition to federal law requirements, Fivestars complies with applicable state and local laws governing nondiscrimination in employment in every location in which the company has facilities. This policy applies to all terms and conditions of employment, including recruiting, hiring, placement, promotion, termination, layoff, recall, transfer, leaves of absence, compensation, and training

As the world's leader in digital payments technology, Visa's mission is to connect the world through the most creative, reliable and secure payment network - enabling individuals, businesses, and economies to thrive. Our advanced global processing network, VisaNet, provides secure and reliable payments around the world, and is capable of handling more than 65,000 transaction messages a second. The company's dedication to innovation drives the rapid growth of connected commerce on any device, and fuels the dream of a cashless future for everyone, everywhere. As the world moves from analog to digital, Visa is applying our brand, products, people, network and scale to reshape the future of commerce.

At Visa, your individuality fits right in. Working here gives you an opportunity to impact the world, invest in your career growth, and be part of an inclusive and diverse workplace. We are a global team of disruptors, trailblazers, innovators and risk-takers who are helping drive economic growth in even the most remote parts of the world, creatively moving the industry forward, and doing meaningful work that brings financial literacy and digital commerce to millions of unbanked and underserved consumers.

You're an Individual. We're the team for you. Together, let's transform the way the world pays.

Job Description

Visa UX is looking for a Staff UI Engineer to join our team. We believe that great design has the ability to engage and inspire users and we strive to rethink and redefine how users interact with our applications and products. All of our team members are strategic thinkers and conceptual problem solvers who make every UX decision an informed one. We value hard work, accountability and collaboration and look for proven skills over big egos. Our team excels in working together and recognizing individual strengths, and values each contributor as a key factor in successfully delivering a project. If you understand “Yes, and” over “No” this is the team for you.

In this role, you will work closely with UX designers, software engineers and product owners to build pixel perfect layouts, user interface components, and single page applications for a variety of websites and applications. You will work on a very agile team and be expected to context shift quickly between projects.
Build engaging, usable, and accessible UI applications/components/code libraries for web - in the form of HTML/CSS/JavaScript and technical notes
Analyze existing software for Usability and Accessibility issues and provide recommendations for improvement
Work with a diverse team of product owners, UX designers, and developers in a fast paced environment, with quick iterative cycles
Keep up to date with the latest trends in web engineering and introduce them into projects when appropriate
Evangelizing UI/UX front-end best practices and Accessibility for web
Fielding inquiries and requests for support from stakeholders
Work with Visa UX leadership team to attract, build, and maintain an engaged team of UX professionals across the globe
Qualifications
Basic
4 years of work experience with a Bachelor’s Degree or at least 2 years of work experience with an Advanced degree (e.g. Masters, MBA, JD, MD) or 0 years of work experience with a PhD degree

Preferred
Bachelor degree in CS, MIS, UX or equivalent experience
6+ years of experience required
HTML5, CSS3, and JavaScript (Required)
Experience with modern JavaScript UI frameworks such as Angular and/or React (Required)
Experience implementing pixel perfect layouts and UI components using Angular or React (required)
Experience building Single Page Applications that consume REST services (Required)
Experience with one server-side web application framework and language like Ruby/Rails, C#/ASP.Net, JS/NodeJS, etc. (Required)
Understanding of UX and the design techniques and principals involved in the production of conceptual prototypes, wireframes, and HTML Prototypes (Required)
Verbal and written communication skills, problem solving skills, customer service and interpersonal skills (Required)
Ability to work independently and manage one’s time (Required)
Web Standards and Accessibility Best Practices (Required)
Ability to analyze written requirements and visually conceptualize the user interface and application flows (Required)
Knowledge of Adobe products (Required)
Responsive Design Principles (Required)
Additional Information
Work Hours This position requires the incumbent to be available during core business hours.

Travel Requirements This position requires the incumbent to travel for work less than 5% of the time.

Mental/Physical Requirements This position will be performed in an office setting. The position will require the incumbent to sit and stand at a desk, communicate in person and by telephone, frequently operate standard office equipment, such as telephones and computers, reach with hands and arms, and bend or lift up to 25 pounds.

EEO Statement Visa is an EEO Employer. Qualified applicants will receive consideration for employment without regard to race, color, religion, sex, national origin, sexual orientation, gender identity, disability or protected veteran status. Visa will also consider for employment qualified applicants with criminal histories in a manner consistent with EEOC guidelines and applicable local law.

The modern world runs on the Internet, and the Internet cannot exist without its underlying infrastructure. Meraki makes setting up, managing, and maintaining that infrastructure easier than it has ever been before. Meraki enables connectivity everywhere from neighborhood cafes to education institutions to global hospitality groups operating thousands of sites.

As a Full Stack Engineer at Meraki, you will help design and build features for Meraki's Dashboard - the window to the entire Meraki experience. From Dashboard, our customers can control their entire Meraki stack access points, switches, firewalls, client devices, cameras, and more. You will work across the stack with other developers, UX designers, and product management to build and improve the Dashboard web application. Meraki engineers put the customer experience first, own projects from beginning to end, and are empowered to make impactful decisions.

Meraki believes that the quality of our product is dependent on the quality of our engineers. We place a high value on nurturing the growth and development of everyone on our team. We foster an open and supportive workplace where everybody is given the opportunity to succeed.
Example projects of a Full Stack Web Developer
Create services to fetch data from millions of Meraki devices, then present that data in a user-friendly way
Improve performance and efficiency of our backend, allowing us to handle increasingly large datasets with minimal delay
Build internal frameworks and refine front end infrastructure to augment developer productivity
Construct API endpoints to allow Meraki users and third party companies to build custom tools and features
Build a dashboard for anomaly / outlier detection on network traffic using machine learning algorithms
Build a graph for network traffic analysis using clustering and other algorithms
You are an outstanding applicant if
You have a technical degree or equivalent experience with a strong foundation in the fundamentals of computer science
You strive to build rich and dynamic web applications with front-end frameworks such as React, Redux, Ember, or Angular
You are familiar with programming languages and web frameworks like Ruby (Rails, EventMachine), Python (Django, Flask), or Node.js (Express)
You have worked with SQL and relational Databases
You would flourish within a small engineering team and are excited to tackle open-ended problems

Cisco is an Affirmative Action and Equal Opportunity Employer and all qualified applicants will receive consideration for employment without regard to race, color, religion, gender, sexual orientation, national origin, genetic information, age, disability, veteran status, or any other legally protected basis. Cisco will consider for employment, on a case by case basis, qualified applicants with arrest and conviction records.

At Cisco Meraki, we don't just accept difference - it's one of our key values. Everybody In means we listen to each other's opinions. Everybody is accepted and valued here, and we are a team that works as one towards our goals. We recognize that diverse teams make the strongest teams, and we encourage people from all backgrounds to apply.
Industry
Computer Hardware Computer Software Computer NetworkingAbout GoDaddy

GoDaddy powers the world's largest cloud platform dedicated to small, independent ventures. With 19 million customers worldwide, GoDaddy is the place people come to name their idea, build a professional website, attract customers and manage their work. Our mission is to empower entrepreneurs everywhere, making opportunity more inclusive for all. To learn more about the company visit www.GoDaddy.com .

GoDaddy empowers small business owners to grow their business online with a suite of tools for both the Do-It-Yourself (DIY) customer and the customer who needs professionals that will Do-It-For-You (DIFY).

We are a team of software engineers working in the heart of downtown Austin, Texas, dedicated to building world-class systems that enable small business owners to be seen, look great, and connect with their customers online. Our “Do-It-For-You” suite of tools allow GoDaddy professionals to create and manage fully-custom websites, digital marketing presence, email marketing campaigns, and more, so owners can focus on what they know best - selling their products and services.

As a Senior Full Stack Software Engineer on our GoDaddy Austin team:

Here’s What You’ll Do
Collaborate with a diverse background of engineering, product, and operations team members to deliver the best solution for our customers.
Solve technical problems that few have solved before – no one else helps Local Businesses the way we do!
Spend about 60% of your project time on front end code, and 40% on back end code.
Participate in the decision making progress – we want you to speak up!
Mentor your team members to share your passion for software, your appreciation for engineering discipline, and your respect for the craft of software development
Take on the challenge of making what you build higher quality, faster, and more scalable.
Have a direct effect on the company’s top line performance.
Here’s what you’ll need:
5+ years professional experience with designing, implementing, deploying, and maintaining front end web applications and related backend services.
Deep knowledge and a passion for coding standards, especially HTML5, CSS / CSS3, and JavaScript.
Knowledge of current trends and methodologies in front end architecture, including performance optimization, accessibility, and usability.
Experience in responsive web design and development.
Strong understanding of REST APIs and Java, Node, Python, or other modern language
Solid foundation in data structures and algorithms
Passion to develop elegant and ground-breaking solutions for real-world small business problems
Effective, efficient communication with local and remote individuals
Unselfish, team-first attitude. We organize into 4-7 person teams, and we celebrate successes and learn from failures together.
Embrace the process of focused design, building something quickly, learning from it, and adjusting over 2 weeks, instead of investing months in planning.
Demonstrate our core values in your work, every day
Here’s what we use:
Java/JVM, Javascript, Node.js, React, PHP
AWS - RDS, S3, SQS, CloudFormation, ECS, EC2
Git
GoDaddy is proud to be an equal opportunity employer. We will not discriminate against any applicant or employee on the basis of age, race, color, creed, religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender, gender identity or expression, medical condition, national origin, ancestry, citizenship, marital status or civil partnership/union status, physical or mental disability, pregnancy, childbirth, genetic information, military and veteran status, or any other basis prohibited by applicable federal, state or local law. GoDaddy will consider for employment qualified applicants with criminal histories in a manner consistent with local and federal requirements.

If you need assistance completing an application for a position with us, please reach out to our Recruiting Team at Recruiting@godaddy.com

Please note that GODADDY does not accept unsolicited resumes from recruiters or employment agencies.


Based in the Bohemian Cowboy capital of the world, Austin, Texas, Literati is a new kind of bookseller. Our mission is simple: to make parents and children love reading together by building a community that sparkles with life, curiosity, and imagination. We have more investors than employees, so if you’re a team player, an expert with a beginner’s mind, a rainmaker, or have a hint of alchemy up your sleeve, then we definitely want to talk with you!

Literati is looking for an exceptional individual to join our engineering team as a Front End Software Engineer. The right person for this role will be motivated to combine the art of design with the art of building elegant code. This includes the translation of UX design wireframes to actual code that will produce visual elements for the applications you are working on. You will work closely with the UX team to bridge the gap between design and technical implementation, taking an active role on both sides and defining how the application looks & feels as well as how it works.

What you'll do...
Develop new user-facing features
Work closely with the UX teams to ensure the technical feasibility of UX designs
Optimize application for maximum speed and scalability
Work closely with the Back-End team to assure that all user input is validated before submitting
Collaborate with other team members and stakeholders across the company
Who you are...
Someone who gets things done
You thrive in a fast-paced environment where decisions are made on the fly
You’re willing to get gritty & roll up sleeves
A Talented Juggler
You successfully manage competing priorities, and you make it look easy
A team player who has worked on diverse teams and knows how to communicate effectively
What you'll need...
BS in Computer Science or similar field
Very strong CSS and JavaScript chops
Familiarity with React and compiled CSS
Strong preference for simplicity in design both visually and in code
5-7 years building production-grade reactive web applications
Literati is dedicated to cultivating and preserving a culture of inclusion and connectedness. We believe in the power of literature as a transformative form of technology that helps us see, and reflect upon, our common humanity. A great workplace should do the same—see, reflect, and celebrate the experiences, knowledge, innovation, self-expression, and talent of a diverse array of people. In recruiting for our team, we welcome the unique contributions that all potential candidates can bring in terms of their education, opinions, culture, ethnicity, race, gender identity and expression, nationality, age, languages spoken, veteran’s status, religion, neurological and physical ability, sexual orientation, and beliefs.

Dropbox is the world’s first smart workspace that helps people and teams focus on the work that matters. With more than 600 million registered users across 180 countries, we’re on a mission to design a more enlightened way of working. Dropbox is headquartered in San Francisco, CA, and has 12 offices around the world.


Team Description
Our Engineering team is working to simplify the way people work together. They’re building a family of products that handle over a billion files a day for people around the world. With our broad mission and massive scale, there are countless opportunities to make an impact.




Role Description


Dropbox is looking for front-end software engineers to come build the future of work collaboration. We are looking for people who share our passion and belief that the best technology is simple, beautiful, accessible and usable. Using modern front-end technology (e.g. TypeScript, React, Redux) we expect front-end engineers to fully represent users' needs through close partnership with product, design, and user research.
You’ll be working on marquee projects like The New Dropbox , Document Previews and Dropbox Paper . As a front-end engineer you are expected to architect, developing and releasing user-facing features and ensure the quality of our product continues to serve the needs of our tens of millions of users. 

Responsibilities

You will partner with product managers, designers, and analysts to deeply understand the needs of our users and build a product that serves those needs
You will take full ownership of engineering projects from design to implementation to deployment and maintenance
You will design and build software capable of reaching millions of daily users in Javascript and (sometimes) in HTML/CSS and Python
You will ensure that our development environment is best in class by delivering improvements to internal tooling and direct partnership with our product platform teams
You will work closely with customer support to respond quickly to issues for our users and solve those in a permanent and scalable way
You will improve the team and company – you will be an active participant in our culture (mentorship, interviewing, and new initiatives)


Requirements

BS (or higher, e.g., MS, or PhD) in Computer Science or related technical field involving coding (e.g., physics or mathematics), or equivalent technical experience
2+ years of frontend software engineering and/or work related industry experience
Previous success developing and shipping a large-scale web application with a user-empathetic mindset
Skilled with web technologies including Javascript (framework of your choice), HTML, and CSS


Benefits and Perks

100% company paid individual medical, dental, & vision insurance coverage
401k + company match
Market competitive total compensation package
Free Dropbox space for your friends and family
Wellness Reimbursement
Generous vacation policy
10 company paid holidays
Volunteer time off
Company sponsored tech talks (technology and other relevant professional topics)

Dropbox is an equal opportunity employer. We are a welcoming place for everyone, and we do our best to make sure all people feel supported and connected at work. A big part of that effort is our support for members and allies of internal groups like Asians at Dropbox, BlackDropboxers, Latinx, Pridebox (LGBTQ), Vets at Dropbox, Women at Dropbox, ATX Diversity (based in Austin, Texas) and the Dropbox Empowerment Network (based in Dublin, Ireland).

Industry
Computer Software Information Technology & Services Internet

Fueled by a fundamental belief that having access to financial services creates opportunity, PayPal (NASDAQ: PYPL) is committed to democratizing financial services and empowering people and businesses to join and thrive in the global economy. Our open digital payments platform gives PayPal’s 286 million active account holders the confidence to connect and transact in new and powerful ways, whether they are online, on a mobile device, in an app, or in person. Through a combination of technological innovation and strategic partnerships, PayPal creates better ways to manage and move money, and offers choice and flexibility when sending payments, paying or getting paid. Available in more than 200 markets around the world, the PayPal platform, including Braintree, Venmo and Xoom, enables consumers and merchants to receive money in more than 100 currencies, withdraw funds in 56 currencies and hold balances in their PayPal accounts in 25 currencies.

When applying for a job you are required to create an account, if you have already created account - click Sign In.

Creating an account will allow you to follow the progress of your applications.

Note

Provide full legal first Name/Family Name
DO: Capitalize first letter of First and Last Name. Example: John Smith
DON'T: Capitalize entire First and/or Last Name. Example: JOHN SMITH
NOTE: Use correct grammar for Names with multiple cases. Example: McDonald or O'Connell

Provide full address details

Resume Is Required

Multiple attachments can be uploaded including Resume and Cover Letter for each application

Job Description Summary

The Customer Success and Insights Platform team is looking for a highly talented, self-driven, proven software engineer to take on the challenge of building Knowledge management Platform. As an engineer in our development team you will be responsible for the development of key building blocks of a Knowledge management Platform We are looking for software engineers who are curious, fast-learning, and versatile , to join the team working to develop the next-generation service that will change how billions of users access, explore, and interact with PayPal product content. . The Knowledge management Platform will be serving requests originating from various Customer interfaces like PayPal Help center , Customer Service chat, Chatbot, Interactive Voice Response to name a few interfaces. You will work closely with product, architects and other teams to understand the business needs and deliver solutions to meet their needs.

Engineers willing to join this team should be able to work Full Stack utilizing Express JS, React JS, JAVA , GraphQL and NODE JS technologies

Job Description

The Customer Success and Insights Platform team is looking for a highly talented, self-driven, proven software engineer to take on the challenge of building Knowledge management Platform. As an engineer in our development team you will be responsible for the development of key building blocks of a Knowledge management Platform We are looking for software engineers who are curious, fast-learning, and versatile , to join the team working to develop the next-generation service that will change how billions of users access, explore, and interact with PayPal product content. . The Knowledge management Platform will be serving requests originating from various Customer interfaces like PayPal Help center , Customer Service chat, Chatbot, Interactive Voice Response to name a few interfaces. You will work closely with product, architects and other teams to understand the business needs and deliver solutions to meet their needs.

Engineers willing to join this team should be able to work Full Stack utilizing Express JS, React JS, JAVA , GraphQL and NODE JS technologies

Must Have Qualifications



Total 3+ Years of software development experience

2+ years working with Node.JS ( specifically Express JS and React JS )

1+ years working with JAVA ( SPRING WS )

Experience working with UI Library and state-management libraries like React.JS , Redux

Experience building REST and GraphQL Services

Experience working with SQL/ NoSQL databases like Oracle, Couchbase,

Experience working with Test Frameworks like Chai, Mocha

Experience integrating 3rd Party API and Authentication Services

Experience maintaining a UI component framework.

Knowledge of build Tools like Maven, Webpack, Grunt

Knowledge of Search / NLP technologies like Elasticsearch, Lucene

Knowledge of debugging memory issues

Other Desired Qualifications

———————————————

Open-source contributions

Working with Python on Big Data Analytics and ML

Experience and knowledge in GraphQL and Apollo

Experience writing clear, modular code and effective, pragmatic tests.

Thorough understanding of unidirectional data flow, state management, compositional design patterns, and other modern UI engineering concepts.

Experience identifying code complexity, exploring and communicating alternatives, and refactoring it to be simpler.

Experience and involvement in design, architecture and implementation of best practices for a highly scalable platform that will be processing millions of requests per day, eventually per hour, and per minute and second.

Experience and involvement in leading edge discovery utilizing the latest methods in deep learning, NLP, AI, machine learning, and knowledge acquisition

Understanding of how to blend machine learning and neural network algorithms for training competitive state-of-the-art models into parallel computing environments (e.g. GPU, distributed clusters, etc.)

Understanding of one or more of the following: NLP, text understanding, classification, pattern recognition, question answering, information retrieval, knowledge base or similar.

ocation: Austin TX

Required Skills And Experience
Minimum 10+ years development experience. (
Must have 5+ years in JavaScript, Nodejs or Java Development.
Experience with design and interacting with NoSQL Database and Experience with Messaging Systems like RabbitMQ.
In-depth expertise in Docker and Kubernetes a big plus.
Design, Develop, Optimize and Scale at every stage of the architecture.
4+ years' experience in modern RESTful API development
Strong bash skills.

Minimum Qualifications
BS in Computer Science
Must have 10+ years in Development JavaScript, Nodejs or Java.
Mongo 2+ years.

Preferred QUALIFICATIONS
Masters from a reputed university.
Apply with your GitHub username or references to repositories where you have contributed.

We Are Looking For

Building Elegant software and architectural solutions. Design, Develop, test, and maintain robust, resilient, scalable, high-quality software for the product platform. Work closely with a distributed team, product managers, testers, and architects to execute on the requirements. Strong development discipline and verify your needs with automated and complete test coverage. Estimate work efforts so that they can be prioritized to create a realistic delivery schedule. Strive and maintain defect-free code.

AppSumo was started in 2011 by serial online entrepreneur Noah Kagan. The idea was simple: the tools you need to run your business shouldn't put you out of business. Today, the AppSumo team has grown and includes some of the best talent from Facebook, Microsoft, and Bloomberg (to name a few).

Our mission, however, remains the same. To date, we've partnered with over 1,000 startups to bring our community the absolute best deals on software. We've partnered with companies like MailChimp, Evernote, and Dropbox — startups that have gone on to become household names in software.

With hundreds of successful product launches and over a million entrepreneurs served, we're looking to take AppSumo to the next level.

That's where you, the Software Engineer Manager comes in.

About This Role

Fundamentally, this job is about diagnosing our biggest business opportunities and implementing cutting-edge solutions to engineering problems to improve the AppSumo platform. This role is responsible for translating business requirements into technical needs and actions.

A day in the life of an Engineering Manager would be a blend of dev work, mentorship, and overseeing the execution of some of our biggest projects.

The Engineering Manager will mentor each team member on how to write beautiful code and provide insights for design decisions. In your first six months, success means you have contributed significantly to the execution of story points, mentored junior and mid-level engineers, and continued to support and develop your team.

We're looking for a strong technical lead who has a background as a full stack developer with experience in designing and developing cloud based applications. Someone who is committed to high standards, strong in computer science fundamentals, enjoys coaching others, and loves designing technical solutions.

We recently rebuilt our platform with an updated tech stack that includes Python, Javascript, Node, AWS, Docker, Linux, and ElasticSearch. We run continuous integration and deployment using Atlassian Tools (Jira and Confluence), redis, celery, nginx, Postgresql, and git.

Our ideal candidate has 8+ years as a hands-on software developer or architect (more specifically in the web app, SaaS, or ecommerce domain) and 4+ years as a technical lead, hands-on team lead, or chief architect.

Pay & Benefits

We provide a competitive compensation package. In addition, we offer paid lunches every day, a stocked fridge, any snacks you want, and two all-expenses paid company trips with the team. (You can check them out here.) You'll be equipped with a brand-new computer, monitor, standing desk and any other gear you need to feel productive. Not to mention, we also have in-office massages weekly. Oh, and you can bring your dog to work. We love your dog :)

At AppSumo, we don't believe in benchwarmers or clockwatchers: we treat all of our teammates like adults and trust that when you have something to do, you'll get it done. If you need to run an errand, hit the gym, or meet a friend for lunch you're encouraged to do so. You can work from home as often as you need to, and you'll have unlimited vacation days to go on adventures. (Everyone says it, but we mean it: Take as much time as you want.)

We're committed to creating a diverse, supportive, and collaborative working environment - every person we bring onto the team helps cultivate a culture that we're proud of.
SparkCognition is an AI leader that offers business-critical solutions for customers in energy, oil and gas, manufacturing, finance, aerospace, defense, and security. A highly awarded company recognized for cutting-edge technology, SparkCognition develops AI-powered, cyber-physical software for the safety, security, reliability, and optimization of IT, OT, and the Industrial IoT.

SparkCognition is seeking a frontend software engineer for our Natural Language Processing product - DeepNLP. The frontend developer will be part of an integrated team that includes data scientists, software engineers, and automation engineers. DeepNLP can read natural language content directly from documents or from tables (like customer support tickets, emails, maintenance records exported from a database) and enable subject matter experts to automate extraction and/or categorization of information into a structured data set.

Our DeepNLP product team values ownership, collaboration, integrity, humility, innovation, and putting the customer first (internal and external stakeholders). If you enjoy working in a collaborative team setting where learning is at the forefront of every workday, listening and asking the question why is always in your thought process, consistently raising the bar to deliver quality products to our customers, and enjoy having fun throughout this entire journey - this position could be just what you are looking for!

Responsibilities
Work directly with the product team and take direction from Frontend lead
Ownership of work items. "I'm not done, until we are done" attitude.
Help create and finalize acceptance criteria for a feature in software development life cycle
Consistently share learnings with team (successes and failures)
Enjoy building and delivering quality products to customers; put yourself in the customer's shoes
Are able to balance timely deliveries with delivering what the business needs
Self-starter and enjoy having fun working in a collaborative environment
Value communication (written, verbal)
Attention to detail and understand priority and severity levels of issues raised from test team members
Test-driven

Qualifications
2 to 5 years of related experience
Experience w/ Typescript
Strong CSS skillset, particularly in flexbox, grid
Experience in Angular 5-7 and RXJS
Experience in frontend ops (Webpack, Husky, etc)
Experience in Unit testing / Jest
Experience in React 16+ a plus
Previous work with SVG or related libraries (D3, P5, paper) a plus
Experience with Python a plus
Experience with Solr a plus
Familiarity w/ Data Science or Machine learning a plus

SparkCognition is an equal opportunity employer. All qualified applicants will receive consideration for employment without regard to race, color, religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity and/or expression, national origin, protected veteran status, disability or genetics and will not be discriminated against on the basis of such characteristics or any other status protected by the laws or regulations in the locations where we operate. If you need assistance or an accommodation due to a disability, you may contact us at accommodations@sparkcognition.com.

Looking for a company that encourages passion, courage and creativity, where you can be part of the team crafting the future of global commerce? Want to shape how millions of people buy, sell, connect, and share around the world? If you're interested in joining a purpose driven community that is dedicated to crafting an ambitious and inclusive workplace, join eBay a company you can be proud to be a part of.

Primary Job Responsibilities:

Do you want to make an impact on the world's largest e-commerce website? Are you interested in building performance efficient, high-volume and highly scalable distributed systems? We have a place for you!
We are looking for a senior Full Stack Software engineer to work in Trust product development team that builds applications for eBay marketplaces After Sales areas Cancel, Return, eBay Money Back guarantee, Feedback and Seller Standards. As an ambitious and hardworking member of our team, you will work with very dedicated peers in a fun environment building world class products. You will work in an agile environment with a focus on problem solving and engineering excellence.

Job responsibilities:
Define, design, and implement complex, multi-tier distributed software systems throughout all phases of the software development life cycle
Work on new and existing product initiatives and be a driver in the definition of product direction.
Partner effectively with product management, QE, partner teams.
Develop technical & domain expertise and apply to solving product challenges.
Work with other engineers, Architecture, Product Management, QA, and Operations teams to develop innovative solutions that meet business needs with respect to functionality, performance, scalability, reliability, realistic implementation schedules and adherence to development principles and product goals

Job Requirements:
Experience in software design and development, solid foundation in computer science with strong competencies in data structures, algorithms, and software design.
Experience in object-oriented design methodology and large scale application development in Java (or any other object oriented language)
Excellent understanding of web technologies, distributed systems and service oriented architecture along with web services and related standards like REST/JSON
Relational database and SQL development experience
Experience on HTML 5, CSS 3.0, NodeJS is a plus.
Experience with big data solutions such as Hadoop, Hive, Kafka, Storm etc. is a plus.
Self-motivated and fast learner. Excellent communication, presentation, interpersonal and analytical skills
BSCS or BSEE or other equivalent technical degree

Here at eBay, we love crafting opportunities for others by connecting people from widely diverse backgrounds, perspectives, and geographies. So, being diverse and inclusive isn’t just something we strive for, it is who we are, and part of what we do each and every single day. We want to ensure that as an employee, you feel eBay is a place where, no matter who you are, you feel safe, included, and that you have the opportunity to bring your unique self to work. To learn about eBay’s Diversity & Inclusion click here: https://www.ebayinc.com/our-company/diversity-inclusion/.

Resilinc is the industry leading provider of Supply Chain Risk Management (SCRM) solutions for the extended supply chain. Resilinc’s solutions deliver supply chain visibility, sophisticated risk analytics and robust strategies to mitigate the risk of supply chain disruptions. Our unique and innovative SaaS technology products deliver the leading end-to-end solution that address the fundamental problem of improving supply chain visibility through multiple tiers and fosters collaboration between ecosystem partners. Our information and analytics platform enable Customers to proactively monitor their supply chain for critical exposures to global regions and work collaboratively with suppliers on risk mitigation and crisis response.

Requirement for this position: US Citizen / Permanent Resident (green card)

Education
BS, MS

Past Experience
4+ years’ work experience.

Job Description
Champion for resolving architectural and technical design decisions for cloud product, especially to improve usability and workflow .
Passionate about being a hands-on UI developer from time to time and enjoys developing features with high quality.
Deliver high quality product releases on time.
Able to analyze and debug complex critical issues and help the team to resolve within accepted turnaround time.
Be a champion of good design
Should possess good problem-solving capability
Collaborate with internal stakeholders, product managers to help make the Dashboards and UI more intuitive
Hand off dashboards and the requirements documentation to other technical teams in a global delivery model
Robust technical knowledge and good communication skills

Skills
Experience with core product development.
4+ years of software engineering experience in web technologies and front end development.
You must have experience with JavaScript, Responsive Web Design, Single Page Applications.
Technical Skills Required – robust working knowledge of JavaScript variants, TypeScript, HTML5, CSS variants. Frameworks / libraries such as Angular, React, jQuery, d3.js, ag-grid are a plus.
Must be familiar with Design Patterns, Web Services – RESTful, strong with Database knowledge.
Cloud experience strongly preferred; web application experience required at a minimum.
Experience with Agile development methodology.
Experience with user-centered design.
New Technology must excite you.
High energy and motivation.
Strong customer focus.

At Capital One, we’re building a leading information-based technology company. Still founder-led by Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Richard Fairbank, Capital One is on a mission to help our customers succeed by bringing ingenuity, simplicity, and humanity to banking. We measure our efforts by the success our customers enjoy and the advocacy they exhibit. We are succeeding because they are succeeding.

Guided by our shared values, we thrive in an environment where collaboration and openness are valued. We believe that innovation is powered by perspective and that teamwork and respect for each other lead to superior results. We elevate each other and obsess about doing the right thing. Our associates serve with humility and a deep respect for their responsibility in helping our customers achieve their goals and realize their dreams. Together, we are on a quest to change banking for good.

Wikibuy Lead Back End Engineer - Node.JS | Python | AWS

Within Capital One, the Wikibuy (https://wikibuy.com/) team is working on a new consumer product that seeks to change the way people buy things online. We believe that no matter where you shop, it should be easy to buy things at the best price.

We are a fast-paced, get-stuff-done team solving a difficult problem in a unique way. We’re focused on scaling our products to millions of customers and refining the experience to create a product that customers and partners can’t live without.

Our office in Austin is located at 3711 South Mopac Expressway.

Who are you?

You are an experienced backend software developer who enjoys both leading projects and being an individual contributor / technical expert
You prefer an intense, energetic environment and working with passionate, top-notch people
You execute well with a high degree of individual ownership, but are also adept working as part of a team
You are comfortable balancing the competing demands of rapid iteration and system reliability, scalability, and performance
You love working in a data-driven and customer-first environment
You’re on top of new developments in the open source community

Responsibilities

Lead technical design and delivery of complex applications across multiple systems
Architect, deploy and support performant production software on cloud server infrastructure
Collaborate with product managers and front end developers to prioritize and plan initiatives
Lead development of tools and systems to enable other internal customers
Provide oversight and mentorship to junior engineers on software engineering techniques and technology

Technologies we use

Node.js, Python, Cassandra, Postgres, Elasticsearch, RabbitMQ, AWS, Docker, Marathon, Mesos, Jenkins, Datadog, Kibana

Basic Qualifications
Bachelor’s degree
At least 5 years of experience in Software Engineering
At least 2 years of experience with Java, Node.js, or Go
At least 2 year experience with relational and non-relational databases.

Preferred Qualifications
6+ years of software development experience
Experience with modern relational databases like Postgres, MySQL, and Redshift
Experience with deploying clustered web services
Experience with distributed technologies such as Cassandra and Elastic Search
Experience using modern build and deployment tools such as Jenkins, Docker, etc.

At this time, Capital One will not sponsor a new applicant for employment authorization for this position.

Cyber Security Systems Engineer 2-ISSE, TS/SCI

Reston, VA, US

  Company Overview: 

The Buffalo Group is seeking key personnel to deliver comprehensive automation/information technology support to Department of the Army Intelligence Information Services (DAIIS) worldwide intelligence dissemination, data management, and knowledge management missions. Come join our dynamic team and provide mission critical support to U.S. interests and deployed warfighters around the world!  

  

At The Buffalo Group, you will be more than a rank and file - we’re looking for ambitious professionals with passion for their work and confidence in their ideas. In addition to competitive compensation and benefits, we offer growth opportunities through promotion and professional development.  


Job Summary

The SW Developer/SW Engineer is responsible for developing frontend and backend code for a variety of web based applications including business systems, mission systems, and warfighter support systems. Applications are written in a variety of languages including Angular X/ JavaScript/C#/Python/Java, Ruby On Rails, .NET. Work as part of a small team developing applications for both classified and unclassified environments. Help set the direction, implementation, and capabilities of the application. Take ownership of your work through unit testing and deliverable signoff. Grow your capabilities through developing scripted deployment solutions to the cloud using Jenkins and Ansible.

 

Responsibilities & Duties

• Supports software and web architecture development, requirements analysis, process execution and evaluation, selection and evaluation of COTS/GOTS tools, and integration (with both new and legacy systems)

• Follows a formal design process using formal specifications, data flow diagrams, other accepted design techniques and also adheres to laws, standards, and established guidelines for development and delivery of software and web applications (e.g., software reuse, modifiable, efficient, reliable, understandable, fault tolerant)

• Develops and maintains software and web development technical documentation to assist with software and web application maintenance and upgrades

• Provides software process management and configuration management throughout the software / web development lifecycle

 

Programming Skills: .NET, Ruby, Ruby on Rails, Python, Angular X, Java, Grails/Groovy, MongoDB, AWS, JQuery, JSP, XML, Oracle PL/SQL, REST.

Software Application Skills: Apache Tomcat, Tableau Software.

Dev : J2EE, Ajax, JSON, Sql procedures and JavaScript, eBrief

  We make it faster and easier for organizations to integrate all the disparate data sources across the enterprise into a unified analytics infrastructure to make better decisions. This broader analytics infrastructure is provided through our :OS, an enterprise operating system that powers our decision platforms in cyber-security, insurance underwriting, and quantitative finance. Headquartered in Reston, VA, we also has offices in New York, Denver and London.


Required Skills: Go, Kafka, Redis, AWS, JavaScript, HTML, CSS


Job Description: 

Our Full Stack Go Engineer will design and develop elegant and performant code, predominantly in Go. You will join a growing multi-disciplinary team of Data Scientists, Engineers, and Solutions Experts with deep domain knowledge working to develop new capabilities and workflows to solve real-world client problems. Your work will include developing rapid prototypes as well as tools for data analytics, web scraping and user workflows within the our OS SaaS platform including true server-side analytic development. Specific development tasks will range from core user interactions and account management to more demanding tools to manage near real-time and batch- oriented data processing for analytics and simulation modeling. As an internal user and developer of the platform, your experience will inform the development of our product suite to improve capability, usability and performance. Initially this position will be the core developer on a multi-disciplinary security focused team driving rapid development of prototype products.


General Requirements: 

Developing state-of-the-art analytics tools supporting diverse tasks ranging from ad hoc analysis to production-grade pipelines and workflows for customer applications 
Contributing to key user interactions and interfaces for tools across our modular SaaS platform 
Developing tools to improve the ease of use of algorithms and data science tools 
Working collaboratively to ensure consistent and performant approaches for the entire user experience and analytic code developed inside the system 
Interacting directly with client project team members and operational staff to support live customer deployments

Nice to haves: 

Experience with Kafka, Redis, and AWS S3 a plus 
Experience with creating Go apps with database support 
Experience with web scraping 
Experience with combining large datasets from multiple data sources 
Experience developing micro-services a plus 
Familiarity with open source OSINT tools a plus ·Expert knowledge of Javascript, HTML and CSS a plus

Responsibilities: 

Expert knowledge of Go 
Reside in the greater Washington D.C. area or be able to relocate 
Bachelor's Degree or 8 years of relevant work experience 
2+ years of full stack development expertise 
Experience with responsive web applications 
Experience with agile development within commercial projects or elite non- commercial research 
Adept at learning and applying new technologies and solving new problems 
Experience blending analytic and simulation modeling approaches to problem-solving 
Effective organizational skills with strong attention to detail ·Strong communication skills - both written and verbal 
Strong interest and focus on information security

Sr.Javascript Developer
Reston, VA (Need to be onsite)
Contract : 12+ months

Required Skills
Minimum 7 years demonstrated experience with software development.
Strong and evolving competence in several programming languages and technologies, working knowledge of multiple tool sets, technologies and implementation environments
Strong practical experience in ReactJS and scripting experience in a Cloud based environment
Demonstrated experience with AWS Lambda, SNS/SQS, S3, IAM, CloudWatch, RDS and DynamoDB, AWS CLI, Sagemaker
Possess technical skills and experience in the virtual infrastructure domain, specifically Amazon Web Services.
Design and development experience in building and monitoring microservices
Working experience on CI/CD using Jenkins /AWS Code pipeline
Demonstrated experience in developing full stack solutions using NodeJS and React
Fundamentals in OO and computer science foundation principles.
Working knowledge of distributed architectural design patterns
Knowledge of systems analysis and design (including OOAD and UML), and database design
Knowledge of software development lifecycle and modern software engineering principles and practices
Experience setting up a DataOps

Preferred Skills
High analytical skills and knack to develop tools for monitoring high frequency data services.
Experience working on Agile teams with the scrum team member attitude - willingness to support the Team to be successful in any area necessary
Demonstrated experience with AWS cloud supported programming languages like Java, React JS, Angular JS or Python development.
Ability to use: KMS, ALB/ELB, Route 53, VPC
Fluency with CI/CD toolsets such as: CloudFormation, BitBucket, Jenkins, Ansible
Experience with relational databases, and NoSQL databases
Experience building infrastructure as code using AWS CloudFormation or similar scripting techniques
Appetite to Learn new things
Some knowledge in data science and/or machine learningBenefits
Seniority Level
Entry level

Industry
Information Technology & Services Computer Software Telecommunications
You will be a Full Stack Software Developer responsible for the development of new software products and enhancements to existing products and will work as part of a small team to design, build, and field some of the world's highest-volume retail systems.

The Stock Financials Transfers & Adjustments Team is responsible for building the platform that consolidates all processed financial adjustments made to store balance as a result of stock transfer in and out of stores from operational systems, manual adjustments and automatic corrections from exceptions in order to make them available to various clients through, UI, services and data storage for our Store Systems, Global Business Services, Central Operations, and Asset Protection. This platform is part of store financial systems group whose goal is to-
Minimize shrink by ensuring accuracy in the valuation of merchandise transfer
Reduce labor costs associated with resolving exceptions
Provide consistent access for business units involved
Responsibilities-
100% hands on coding
Demonstrates up-to-date expertise in Software Engineering and applies this to the development, execution, and improvement of action plans
Participates in medium- to large-scale projects
Models compliance with company policies and procedures and supports company mission, values, and standards of ethics and integrity
What’s in it for you-
Competitive base salary with potential for bonus and stock
Health, Dental and Vision Benefits
401K
Paid Time Off (PTO)
Career Growth
Minimum Qualifications
5+ years hands on experience in Java
Strong Full Stack experience (extensive knowledge of both front and back-end technologies)
Spring Boot or Spring Framework
RESTful Microservices development
Relational and/or NoSQL Database experience
Experience with node.js
Cloud – Azure or Google Cloud Platform (GCP)
Full life cycle development experience
Framework driven JavaScript (react/angular/ react native)
Experience integrating enterprises/ scalable platforms
Strong ability to problem solve
Additional Preferred Qualifications
Azure certification
Front-end experience with React/Javascript
Experience with GraphQL APIs
Company Summary

Over fifty years ago, Sam Walton started a single mom-and-pop shop and transformed it into the world's biggest retailer. Since those founding days, one thing has remained consistent- helping our customers save money so they can live better. When you join our Walmart family of brands (Sam's Club, Jet.com, Hayneedle, Modcloth, Moosejaw, Bonobos and many more!), you'll play a crucial role in shaping the future of retail, improving millions of lives around the world. Our associates have championed causes like U.S. job expansion, responsible global sourcing, female entrepreneur empowerment, and much, much more, establishing Walmart as a leader in sustainability, corporate philanthropy and employment opportunity. What could you accomplish with Walmart?

Our Digital Customer team focuses on designing and implementing sales and service experiences, capabilities, and architectures to bring customer strategies to life. Our ambition is to be the best in the world at driving customer transformation through the development of clever commercial strategies, distinctive experiences, and the application of digital technologies. We help make the “creative digital consultancy” real and in doing so, make new markets.

Professionals will serve our clients through the following types of work:

Sales Excellence & Service Excellence | delivers sales and service strategies and plans, operating model definition, incentive design and implementation, and operations support for digitally-enabled sales, channel, and customer service capabilities
Digital Experience | creates engaging omni-channel digital experiences across web, mobile, AR/VR, voice, gesture, IoT, and video
Flexible Consumption | the commercial strategy, operating model definition, and capability delivery of subscription/flexible consumption business models
Digital Foundry | a flexible, end-to-end delivery model emphasizing innovation and disruption
DigitalMix | an integrated set of platforms to enable business re-platforming

Qualifications



Active Secret Clearance
Angular 8
SCSS
CSS
Bootstrap
Font awesome
I ntegration with Java web application via Rest

How You’ll Grow

At Deloitte, our professional development plan focuses on helping people at every level of their career to identify and use their strengths to do their best work every day. From entry-level employees to senior leaders, we believe there’s always room to learn. We offer opportunities to help sharpen skills in addition to hands-on experience in the global, fast-changing business world. From on-the-job learning experiences to formal development programs at Deloitte University, our professionals have a variety of opportunities to continue to grow throughout their career. Explore Deloitte University, The Leadership Center.

Benefits

At Deloitte, we know that great people make a great organization. We value our people and offer employees a broad range of benefits. Learn more about what working at Deloitte can mean for you.

Deloitte’s culture

Our positive and supportive culture encourages our people to do their best work every day. We celebrate individuals by recognizing their uniqueness and offering them the flexibility to make daily choices that can help them to be healthy, centered, confident, and aware. We offer well-being programs and are continuously looking for new ways to maintain a culture where our people excel and lead healthy, happy lives. Learn more about Life at Deloitte.

Corporate citizenship

Deloitte is led by a purpose: to make an impact that matters. This purpose defines who we are and extends to relationships with our clients, our people and our communities. We believe that business has the power to inspire and transform. We focus on education, giving, skill-based volunteerism, and leadership to help drive positive social impact in our communities. Learn more about Deloitte’s impact on the world.

Recruiter tips

We want job seekers exploring opportunities at Deloitte to feel prepared and confident. To help you with your interview, we suggest that you do your research: know some background about the organization and the business area you’re applying to. Check out recruiting tips from Deloitte professionals.

As used in this posting, “Deloitte” means Deloitte Consulting LLP, a subsidiary of Deloitte LLP. Please see www.deloitte.com/us/about for a detailed description of the legal structure of Deloitte LLP and its subsidiaries. Certain services may not be available to attest clients under the rules and regulations of public accounting.

All qualified applicants will receive consideration for employment without regard to race, color, religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, national origin, age, disability or protected veteran status, or any other legally protected basis, in accordance with applicable law.

Requisition code: E20ROSSTUSRJS-001

help our team by being an expert in Front-end Software development for National Security purposes. The ideal candidate is passionate about technology and able to learn quickly.

Why us?  We build advanced algorithms to gain analytic insights from a large range of open source and government data  We enable machine learning systems, automate workflow, and design and develop custom applications for unique national-security mission  We operate an end-to-end predictive analytic platform unlike any other within the US Government  We provide training to expand your skills and challenges to develop them  Our client’s missions are vital to national security, so we’re mission-first always  Our work environment is relaxed business casual  At our core we believe and practice social responsibility  What would you be doing?  Creates, prototypes, builds, and refines consumer apps and services through icons, creates test sites, logically arranges UI elements, and provides front-end development Designs visualizations, infographics, and other digital products Respond to customer and team feature requests for web-based applications Minimum Qualifications:  Must be a US Citizen  possessing a current/active TS/SCI and willing and able to obtain a CI Polygraph  Requires at least 3 years of relevant experience. Bachelor's degree in Engineering, Computer Science or related field. 4 additional years of experience may be substituted in lieu of a degree  Front-end focused engineer, expert with web-based applications and confident in both Windows and Linux Tech experience with Node.js, Tomcat, Proxy Servers, Network Config, CICD platforms like git and Jenkins Willing to work onsite at Government customer sites in Northern Virginia  Desired Skills:  Experience with Ansible Experience with webpack, typescript, python, scss, selenium UX experience a plus Ability to work both independently and in a team environment  COMPTIA Security+ certification or CISSP certification or the ability to acquire and maintain certification

Amazon Web Services (AWS) is the world leader in providing a highly reliable, scalable, low-cost infrastructure platform in the cloud that powers hundreds of thousands of businesses in 190 countries around the world!

Passionate about building, owning and operating massively scalable systems? Experienced in building and leading teams of highly competent software engineers? Want to make a billion-dollar impact? If so, we have an exciting opportunity for you.

The Team: We're an agile, independent team working to build a brand new AWS product. We need developers who are capable of breaking down and solving complex problems. This team will have the opportunity to work on highly visible projects that directly impact hundreds of other teams at Amazon.

Developers at Amazon work on real world problems on a global scale, own their systems end-to-end, and influence the direction of our technology that impacts hundreds of millions customers around the world. Join a team of super smart, customer obsessed developers that think big and have fun.


Basic Qualifications
2+ years of non-internship professional software development experience
Programming experience with at least one modern language such as Java, C++, or C# including object-oriented design
1+ years of experience contributing to the architecture and design (architecture, design patterns, reliability and scaling) of new and current systems.
Bachelor's Degree in Computer Science, Mathematics or related field or equivalent work experience
Preferred Qualifications
Experience building new products and services from the ground up.
Experience with React.js, Node.js and Java based web applications
Experience with building RESTful or SOAP APIs
Intermediate to advanced knowledge of computer networking and information security.
Strong communications skills; you will be required to proactively engage fellow Amazonians both inside and outside of your team.
Experience with distributed (multi-tiered) systems, algorithms, and relational databases.
Ability to effectively articulate technical challenges and solutions.
Deal well with ambiguous/undefined problems; ability to think abstractly.
Ability to synthesize requirements underlying feature requests, recommend alternative technical and business approaches, and facilitate engineering efforts to meet aggressive timelines.
Expertise in software processes, web services, multi-tiered systems, and enterprise application integration.
Meets/exceeds Amazon’s leadership principles requirements for this role
Meets/exceeds Amazon’s functional/technical depth and complexity for this role
Please email AWS Sourcing Recruiter, Scott Korkowski (korkowsk@amazon.com) if you have questions.
Amazon is committed to a diverse and inclusive workplace. Amazon is an equal opportunity employer and does not discriminate on the basis of race, national origin, gender, gender identity, sexual orientation, protected veteran status, disability, age, or other legally protected status.

For individuals with disabilities who would like to request an accommodation, please visit https://www.amazon.jobs/en/disability/us.
**For more information on Amazon Web Services, please visit http://aws.amazon.com.**

This role will sit in our new headquarters in Northern Virginia, where Amazon will invest $2.5 billion dollars, occupy 4 million square feet of energy efficient office space, and create at least 25,000 new full-time jobs. Our employees and the neighboring community will also benefit from the associated investments from the Commonwealth including infrastructure updates, public transportation improvements, and new access to Reagan National Airport.

By working together on behalf of our customers, we are building the future one innovative product, service, and idea at a time. Are you ready to embrace the challenge? Come build the future with us.

The Amazon EC2 team is seeking front-end software developers who are passionate about creating beautiful, customer-facing products and rapidly innovating to improve experiences for millions of users. Come join the Amazon Web Services (AWS) development team building web applications that enable customers to launch and manage Elastic Cloud Compute (EC2) instances and other AWS resources. Be a builder on team that is using modern front-end technologies and inventing new ways to delight customers.

Amazon Web Services (AWS) is a global cloud network operating at massive scale serving millions of customers, from individuals, to startups, to enterprise businesses. Each day, millions of developers execute billions of transactions worldwide on the AWS Cloud.

This is an opportunity to be part of a larger visual platform team, while also being able to shape the technology approach and culture for a new team.

This role will sit in our new headquarters in Northern Virginia, where Amazon will invest $2.5 billion dollars, occupy 4 million square feet of energy efficient office space, and create at least 25,000 new full-time jobs. Our employees and the neighboring community will also benefit from the associated investments from the Commonwealth including infrastructure updates, public transportation improvements, and new access to Reagan National Airport.

By working together on behalf of our customers, we are building the future one innovative product, service, and idea at a time. Are you ready to embrace the challenge? Come build the future with us.

In This Role, You Will
Develop new features and improvements for the EC2 Console (https://console.aws.amazon.com/ec2/home).
Work closely with Product Managers and UX Designers to build web-based products that are easy to understand and improve the cloud resource management experience for AWS customers.
Own customer-facing features from design, implementation, testing, and through deployment.
Ensure the technical feasibility of UI/UX designs.
Optimize applications for maximum speed and scalability.
Collaborate with other team members and stakeholders.
Own quality and operational reliability of your products.
Front-End Development
You understand the trade-offs between usability, performance, internationalization and localization, cross-browser compatibility, obfuscation and optimization, and cutting edge customer interface implementation.
You have a working knowledge of UI design principles and are able to apply style guides to new interface use cases.
You work in collaboration with UI Designers on website interface and interactivity.
You understand how web applications work, perform, and scale. You are comfortable with troubleshooting and problem analysis.
You recognize and adopt best practices in front-end development: design, testing, version control, documentation, build, deployment, and operations.
You write high quality, maintainable, and robust code that functions well across browsers.
You have a working knowledge of the latest UI technologies, frameworks and concepts including HTML 5, REST, jQuery, AJAX, CSS3, SOA, responsive design.
You understand fundamental data structures and algorithms and know how, when and when not to use them.
You recognize and utilize user interface design patterns to solve business problems with highly accessible and usable web applications.
You build an understanding of what customers do and why they do it to ensure the solution meets their needs and is fit for purpose.
Problem Solving
You own problems not the solution, stepping back to understand the broader customer context.
You develop pragmatic solutions. You build flexible/scalable systems without over-engineering and choose simple, straightforward solutions over more complex ones. Where existing solutions are known, you use them.
You anticipate and prevent future problems from occurring.
Amazon is an Equal Opportunity Employer – Minority / Women / Disability / Veteran / Gender Identity / Sexual Orientation / Age


Basic Qualifications
Bachelor's degree in Computer Science, Engineering, Math, or similar technical field.
Knowledge and appreciation of web standards.
Strong Computer Science fundamentals in data structures, algorithm design, and problem solving.
At least 4 years of experience building production web applications.
Skilled in developing rich applications with JavaScript, HTML, CSS, and integrating with REST APIs.
At least 2 years of experience with one of the common Javascript frameworks: React, Angular, Vue, or Backbone.
Preferred Qualifications
Experience with React and Redux.
Familiarity with object-oriented design and RESTful web services.
Experience with scaling web applications for high customer volume and data.
Experience troubleshooting and supporting production systems.
Proficient with UI test automation frameworks.
WalmartLabs is the technical powerhouse behind Walmart Global eCommerce. We employ big data at scale -- from machine learning, data mining and optimization algorithms, to modeling and analyzing massive flows of data from online, social, mobile and offline commerce. We don’t just engineer cool websites, mobile apps, and new services; we use our own open source tools to create the framework. Deployment is automated and accelerated through our open cloud platform. This makes us incredibly nimble and able to adjust in real-time to our global customers.

You will be a Full Stack Software Developer responsible for the development of new software products and enhancements to existing products and will work as part of a small team to design, build, and field some of the world's highest-volume retail systems.

The Stock Financials Transfers & Adjustments Team is responsible for building the platform that consolidates all processed financial adjustments made to store balance as a result of stock transfer in and out of stores from operational systems, manual adjustments and automatic corrections from exceptions in order to make them available to various clients through, UI, services and data storage for our Store Systems, Global Business Services, Central Operations, and Asset Protection. This platform is part of store financial systems group whose goal is to:
1. Minimize shrink by ensuring accuracy in the valuation of merchandise transfer
2. Reduce labor costs associated with resolving exceptions
3. Provide consistent access for business units involved

Responsibilities:
• 100% hands on coding
• Demonstrates up-to-date expertise in Software Engineering and applies this to the development, execution, and improvement of action plans
• Participates in medium- to large-scale projects
• Models compliance with company policies and procedures and supports company mission, values, and standards of ethics and integrity

Manager's Ideal Candidate Must-Haves :
• 5+ years hands on experience in Java
• Strong Full Stack experience (extensive knowledge of both front and back-end technologies)
• Spring Boot or Spring Framework
• RESTful Microservices development
• Relational and/or NoSQL Database experience
• Experience with node.js
• Cloud – Azure or Google Cloud Platform (GCP)
• Full life cycle development experience
• Framework driven JavaScript (react/angular/ react native)
• Experience integrating enterprises/ scalable platforms

Manager's Preferred Qualifications:
• Azure certification
• Front-end experience with React/Javascript
• Experience with GraphQL APIs

Homes.com is creating a JavaScript application to power our consumer-facing portal. We are in search of an Experienced JavaScript Web Developer with React and front end experience to join our team in Norfolk, VA.

The ideal candidate for this position will be excited about code and relish the opportunity to stay up to date with the web development community. They won’t be reluctant to receive or afraid to give feedback and contribute to the continuous improvement of our product and organization. They will produce high-quality, unit-tested and sensible code that they can explain in terms of functionality and the impact it has on infrastructure. Join Us. Achieve. Be Recognized

Your Opportunity
Create feature-rich JavaScript components connecting the web to data from a variety of sources.
Work with ReactJS, Sass & HTML on Front End components, or a microserver architecture in server-side JavaScript using the hapi.js framework on the API side of the business.
Contribute to “dev-ops” initiatives
Work as part of a dynamic and professional Agile development environment
Have the opportunity to work full stack

Contribute Your Knowledge, Skills, And Abilities
4-7 years or more of programming experience, preferably in a commercial environment
Experience programming in Front End technologies, such as HTML, CSS & ReactJS
Solid understanding of RESTful web services
Solid understanding of Object Oriented development with Javascript or other web languages (python / ruby / java / c#)
Search stores (elastic search / solr)
Demonstrated full stack web development ability
Demonstrated ability to write unit tests in JavaScript
Familiarity with Linux / Rabbitmq / haproxy is a bonus
Professional programming experience
Experience with Git or comparable version control
SCRUM/Agile
Developing in a server-side language (Node.js, PHP, Coldfusion, Ruby, Java, etc.)
Experience with MongoDB, Lucene Solr, or a NoSQL equivalent
Live or be willing to relocate within commuting distance of our home office in Norfolk, VA
Understanding of functional programming paradigm a big plus

About Homes.com

Homes.com offers today’s demanding home buyers, renters and those somewhere in between a simply smarter home search. With features like Homes.com Match, HomeShare and Snap & Search, homeshoppers now have a more personalized way to search for their next home. Since its launch over 25 years ago, Homes.com offers real estate professionals brand and property advertising, search engine marketing and instant response lead generation to help them succeed online. For more information, visit Homes.com.

About Dominion Enterprises

Dominion Enterprises (“DE”) is a leading digital marketing and software services company offering client solutions across multiple business verticals. Our customers rely on our B2B cloud SaaS solutions to establish their online and mobile brands, generate leads, and manage customer relationships through our Homes.com, Dominion Dealer Solutions, Dominion Business Solutions / DX1, Travel Media and Franchise and Business Opportunity divisions. Our B2C web and mobile applications include Homes.com, HotelCoupons.com, FranchiseOpportunities.com, FranchiseGator.com, Franchise.com, and BusinessBroker.net.

About 2,000 employees reside and work in our Norfolk, VA home office and in offices across the U.S. Our employees will tell you about our collaborative, innovative, team-oriented work environment, excellent career enrichment opportunities, community service opportunities, competitive earnings, and a comprehensive benefits package that includes a generous 401(k). DE is an equal opportunity employer and supports a diverse workforce. DE is a drug-testing employer.

Homes.com is creating a JavaScript application to power our consumer-facing portal. We are in search of an Experienced JavaScript Web Developer with React and front end experience to join our team in Norfolk, VA.
The ideal candidate for this position will be excited about code and relish the opportunity to stay up to date with the web development community. They won't be reluctant to receive or afraid to give feedback and contribute to the continuous improvement of our product and organization. They will produce high-quality, unit-tested and sensible code that they can explain in terms of functionality and the impact it has on infrastructure. Join Us. Achieve. Be Recognized

Your Opportunity
Create feature-rich JavaScript components connecting the web to data from a variety of sources.
Work with ReactJS, Sass & HTML on Front End components, or a microserver architecture in server-side JavaScript using the hapi.js framework on the API side of the business.
Contribute to "dev-ops" initiatives
Work as part of a dynamic and professional Agile development environment
Have the opportunity to work full stack
Contribute Your Knowledge, Skills, And Abilities
4-7 years or more of programming experience, preferably in a commercial environment
Experience programming in Front End technologies, such as HTML, CSS & ReactJS
Solid understanding of RESTful web services
Solid understanding of Object Oriented development with Javascript or other web languages (python / ruby / java / c#)
Search stores (elastic search / solr)
Demonstrated full stack web development ability
Demonstrated ability to write unit tests in JavaScript
Familiarity with Linux / Rabbitmq / haproxy is a bonus
Professional programming experience
Experience with Git or comparable version control
SCRUM/Agile
Developing in a server-side language (Node.js, PHP, Coldfusion, Ruby, Java, etc.)
Experience with MongoDB, Lucene Solr, or a NoSQL equivalent
Live or be willing to relocate within commuting distance of our home office in Norfolk, VA
Understanding of functional programming paradigm a big plus
About Homes.com

Homes.com offers today's demanding home buyers, renters and those somewhere in between a simply smarter home search. With features like Homes.com Match, HomeShare and Snap & Search, homeshoppers now have a more personalized way to search for their next home. Since its launch over 25 years ago, Homes.com offers real estate professionals brand and property advertising, search engine marketing and instant response lead generation to help them succeed online. For more information, visit Homes.com.

About Dominion Enterprises

verview KMM - an ISO 9001:2015, CMMI Level 2 certified company - provides high-quality IT consulting services and innovative solutions by using the most effective and modern technologies. We have a core group of Subject Matter Experts with certifications and immense experience in successfully delivering mission-critical solutions. We have extensive industry experience in the financial, insurance, Health IT, media, marketing, retail, and government markets. We have a proven track record in understanding client's business challenges, determine a customer-focused solution, and provide the technical implementation and documentation to bring it to fruition.

Role: Full Stack JavaScript Engineer

Location: Reston, VA

Duration: Long term Contract
As a Full Stack JavaScript Engineer, the ideal candidate will have designed, developed, unit tested, implemented and documented solutions that include not only the code to supports business functionality, but also the underlying infrastructure required to run that code and the systems required to deploy it. The candidate should also possess technical skills and experience in the virtual infrastructure domain, in particular Amazon Web Services. The preferred candidate would also have knowledge and experience with continuous delivery systems.
The candidate will report to the Senior Director and work within an agile application team that develops and maintains highly visible and critical applications. The candidate will have responsibility to design, implement, unit test, document and maintain complex technical software solutions in support of the application development and QA processes. Additionally you will be expected to ensure communications and relationships with customers and cross-team members are professional and meet expectations.

Essential Functions/Responsibilities
Develop and implement solutions, based on a set of standards, patterns and processes which establish consistency across the enterprise data, reduce risk, and promote efficiencies in support of the organization's goals and objectives.
Developing full stack solutions and continuous delivery frameworks that improve the ability of the CB IT delivery teams to efficiently deliver solutions with quality.
Write complex code, building infrastructure as code, work with immutable 'cloud' based environments, and build the supporting automated toolsets to test and deploy the systems they develop.
Responsible for the quality of their work; will develop and implement a set of quality criteria and the associated validation method to ensure that any deliverable meets the expected quality levels of our customers, use quality management to ensure quality levels are maintained, seek new approaches and techniques to improve quality levels, employ reviews and observations to maintain the quality and continuous improvement process, and analyze the impact of quality control and quality assurance on project performance.
Use metrics to establish feasibility of new initiatives and develop plans, including budget, sequencing and time frames.
Actively review their own and the team's work processes and implements improvements seen from other teams or in industry to drive continuous improvement of the team's efficiency, speed, and quality
The candidate will also take responsibility for creating design specifications, unit testing, and preparing technical documentation.
Minimum Qualifications
A bachelor's degree in Computer Science, Engineering or MIS.
5-7 years of experience in software systems, programming, database development, and infrastructure development and administration
Minimum 5 years demonstrated experience with full stack development.
5+ years demonstrated experience with AWS cloud supported programming languages like Java, Node JS, or Python development.
2+ years hands-on with AWS Lambda, SNS/SQS, S3, IAM, CloudWatch, EC2, RDS and DynamoDB, AWS CLI
Ability to use or learn: KMS, ALB/ELB, Route 53, VPC
Fluency with CI/CD toolsets such as: Jenkins, Ansible, CloudFormation, BitBucket
Working knowledge of distributed architectural design patterns
Strong and evolving competence in several programming languages and technologies, working knowledge of multiple tools sets, technologies and implementation environments
Ability to work independently
Strong problem solving and analytic skill Ability to handle multiple projects and assignments simultaneously and effectively in a cross-functional team environment
Related Skills & Other Requirements
Expertise in the knowledge of programming languages, relational databases, and NoSQL databases
Experience building infrastructure as code using AWS CloudFormation or similar scripting techniques
Familiarity with monitoring tool suites like DataDog, SumoLogic, NewRelic, and Nagios
Experience with Chef, Puppet, Salt, or Ansible in production environments
Strong practical Linux based systems administration skills and scripting experience in a Cloud based environment
Experience with automated testing tools (i.e. selenium, Cucumber) are a plu

The candidate will need to be willing to learn NodeJS and Typescript if they don’t already have this experience. 80% backend with Node and 20% frontend with Javascript/Typescript

 

• We will consider a Senior or Lead level candidate. This is an individual contributor role.

 

• AWS is a plus

 

• Excellent communication skills and demonstrated thought leadership

 

•Aptitude is the most important skill, as technologies will change over time.

 

•This is a centralized software development team that builds standards and establishes best practices for the Mosaic platform.

 

 

This position is based in Boston, MA.

 

Responsibilities

 

• Lead the delivery of high-quality business solutions, including participating in architecture, design, implementation, testing, deployment and support

• Work with business teams, project managers, and systems analysts to review and qualify business requirements, functional specifications, use-cases, and test plans

• Design, prototype and code new software components and applications based on functional specifications across the full stack – services, web and mobile clients, infrastructure and back-end

• Coordinate with analyst teams and vendors to execute test plans and provide support during user acceptance testing

• Modify and enhance existing systems to incorporate new functionality and to optimize them for performance

• Author technical design and support documentation Qualifications • 7+ years of demonstrated experience designing and developing web applications and services using JavaScript and other relevant enterprise technologies (e.g. Java, .Net)

• 7+ years of demonstrated experience designing and developing complex web services using REST, JavaScript/NodeJS, Java and related technologies

• Familiarity with developing web applications using HTML5, CSS and modern UI frameworks such as Angular and React

• Experience with, and a demonstrated understanding of, modern software development and testing methodologies such as Artifactory, GIT, and Jenkins CI

• Experience developing application with cloud technologies such as AWS desired

• Ability to understand legacy in-house applications and highly complex and interrelated systems and processing

We are open to both local and remote candidates, with offices located in multiple U.S. cities!
Are you interested in cutting edge technology? Deeply curious about cloud computing? Do you love to
write? If so, consider becoming a Programmer Writer with Amazon Web Services (AWS).
AWS Programmer Writers combine their love for tech, ability to write, and strong customer focus to
deliver the high-quality, well-organized documentation and code examples developers rely on to build
solutions using AWS services. Writers work closely with engineering teams, and play a key role in our
customers’ success.

We hire people with a broad set of technical skills, for multiple services. Ideally, you have both a
technical background, and the ability to deliver high-quality technical documentation. While we don’t
expect you to be an expert in all of these areas, we hope you are excited to learn about them!
We are a growing team of talented, geographically distributed technical communicators who enjoy
collaborating with others, know the power documentation has to make a real difference, and always put
customers first.


Basic Qualifications
Bachelor's degree or relevant experience.
Ability to read and write basic example code in at least one of the more popular programming languages on the market, such as Java, JavaScript, Python, C++, C#, Swift, or Kotlin.
Experience writing for developer and technical audiences - blog, product documentation, technical information
Preferred Qualifications
Experience designing, planning, and delivering content projects.
Experience working on or closely with software development teams.
Experience using an XML-based authoring system
Technical experience in a major technology area such as Compute, Storage, Database, Developer Tools, Machine Learning, Security or IoT.
Experience working with agile project management methodologies.
Experience working with XML, reStructuredText, or Markdown-based documentation systems.
Experience working with Git or similar distributed version control system.
Ability to read and write example code in a programming language such as Java, JavaScript, Python, Ruby, .NET, or Go.
Come join the team in Boston and help build the next-generation growth engine for restaurants, connecting restaurants and guests with a seamless customer experience that blends analytics, loyalty, and rewards.


We take pride in our inclusive and collaborative team atmosphere that encourages constant learning and growth, and empowers our employees to use their unique strengths and perspectives to make the biggest impact possible. And if we can have some fun, eat tons of food and win the Boston Business Journal’s #1 Best Place to Work Award (which we did twice!) along the way, even better. If you’re looking for a diverse, creative, hard-working team to solve exciting new problems with - look no further!


The Engineering team includes contributors spread across five teams: Design, Mobile, Platform, POS, and White Label. We take pride in the utility of the products we have built and the craftsmanship of their implementations. On the Platform team, we embrace a flat hierarchy and pair junior developers with more senior mentors. Small pods often form to tackle high-priority projects, all of which benefit from thorough testing and code review.

Curious about current projects?

Here are some of the challenges that drive development for the Platform team:


- How can we empower businesses to excite and reward their customers in new ways?

- What interesting things can we do with SKU-level data when a user places an order?

- Why should businesses keep using LevelUp or run more campaigns? How can we help them reach those conclusions more easily?

- Who might want to build on top of our platform and how can we make sure our API supports their needs?

- When will our system reach its breaking point? What must be done now to push back that date


Qualifications:


4+ years professional software development experience with a modern back-end web framework like Django or Rails and a front-end framework like AngularJS or React
Experience designing and implementing RESTful web service APIs
Experience with relational database design fundamentals (PostgreSQL)
Distributed version control experience with Git
Team player with excellent written and spoken English communication skills
Bachelor's degree in Computer Science or ample real-world experience

You'll get exposure to:


Experience building and maintaining a large-scale, high-availability web application with an active and growing user base
Confidence writing tests for high-risk functionality like financial transactions
Practice designing and implementing RESTful web service APIs

At Perceptive Automata, we use our understanding of human behavior, computer vision, and machine learning to make autonomous vehicles safer for people on and near the road.


We are looking for an experienced software engineer to help develop, extend, and maintain our data collection, aggregation, and annotation platform. We’re a rapidly growing startup with a steadily growing volume of data coming through the pipeline used to train and validate our machine learning models. In this role, you will play a critical role in helping to scale the platform to support that growth. 


Strongly Preferred Skills & Background:

B.S. in computer science or equivalent practical experience
4+ years experience with full-stack web development
Strong Python programming skills
Well-versed in full stack development architecture and design best practices, including REST API, micro services, Flask
Experience with javascript and modern front end frameworks, preferably React
Experience with PostgreSQL or other relational databases using both raw SQL queries and ORM
Solid software design skills and experience writing well-tested and scalable code
Strong communication skills (both written and verbal)
Eagerness to learn and master new skills

Also Helpful:

Experience with AWS, including EC2, S3, and RDS
Experience with automated testing tools such as Selenium

Benefits:

Year-End week-long shutdown, 3 weeks paid vacation & 11 holidays
100% Premium paid health insurance
Monthly transit or parking benefit provided by Perceptive Automata
Flexible spending & dependent care accounts
Health care reimbursement account (50% or more of your deductible covered by Perceptive Automata) 
Eye & dental insurance
Flexible maternal & paternal leave
Equity-based compensation
Efficient 401K plan

Perks:

Modern urban office space with natural light and greenery
Lunch provided daily by local restaurants
Unlimited healthy snacks & beverages
Journal clubs, guest speakers & learning opportunities
In-office gaming, board games & books
Office lending library
Company outings
Diverse events organized by team members on an ad-hoc basis 

Company Overview:

Perceptive Automata is a machine learning and computer vision company started by Harvard and MIT scientists that is developing a novel approach to help make autonomous vehicles safer for others on (or near) the road. We are supported by top Silicon Valley investors and global car makers and are growing rapidly in response to increasing demand for this technology.

Facebook's mission is to give people the power to build community and bring the world closer together. Through our family of apps and services, we're building a different kind of company that connects billions of people around the world, gives them ways to share what matters most to them, and helps bring people closer together. Whether we're creating new products or helping a small business expand its reach, people at Facebook are builders at heart. Our global teams are constantly iterating, solving problems, and working together to empower people around the world to build community and connect in meaningful ways. Together, we can help people build stronger communities - we're just getting started.

We are the teams who create all of Facebook's products used by billions of people around the world. Want to build new features and improve existing products like Messenger, Video, Groups, News Feed, Search and more? Want to solve unique, large scale, highly complex technical problems? Facebook is seeking experienced full-stack software engineers to join our product teams. You can help build the next-generation of products that help us connect the next billion people, create new features that have billions of interactions per day and be a part of a team that’s working to help people connect with each other around the globe. Join us!

Responsibilities
Full stack web/mobile application development with a variety of languages including but not limited to PHP, JavaScript, HTML, etc.
Create consumer products and features using internal programming language Hack
Implement web or mobile interfaces using XHTML, CSS, and JavaScript
Work closely with our PM and design teams to define feature specifications and build the next generation of products leveraging frameworks such as React & React Native
Work closely with operations and infrastructure to build and scale back-end services
Build report interfaces and data feeds
Minimum Qualification
5+ years of programming experience
5+ years relevant experience building large-scale applications

Preferred Qualification
B.S. or M.S. Computer Science or related field
Experience with PHP and C++
Facebook is proud to be an Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action employer. We do not discriminate based upon race, religion, color, national origin, sex (including pregnancy, childbirth, or related medical conditions), sexual orientation, gender, gender identity, gender expression, transgender status, sexual stereotypes, age, status as a protected veteran, status as an individual with a disability, or other applicable legally protected characteristics. We also consider qualified applicants with criminal histories, consistent with applicable federal, state and local law. Facebook is committed to providing reasonable accommodations for candidates with disabilities in our recruiting process. If you need any assistance or accommodations due to a disability, please let us know at accommodations-ext@fb.com.

Important Note During the application process, ensure your contact information (email and phone number) is up to date and upload your current resume when submitting your application for consideration. To participate in some selection activities you will need to respond to an invitation. The invitation can be sent by both email and text message. In order to receive text message invitations, your profile must include a mobile phone number designated as “Personal Cell” or “Cellular” in the contact information of your application.

Wells Fargo Wholesale Banking Technology, part of Enterprise Information Technology (EIT), is seeking a seasoned UI developer that will focus on the digital channels technology team to support the wholesale customer Self-service platform applications. This position is for a user interface(UI) developer who will maintain and develop new functionality for the business for the full life cycle of projects from evaluation of complex business requirements to design, coding, and testing of solutions, utilizing a thorough understanding of available technology, tools, and existing designs

The candidate must have hands-on experience in application development and maintenance, technology strategy and have the ability to bring innovative yet practical ideas to the organization and the ability to communicate ideas to all levels for support, adoption and implementation. Candidate should be able to demonstrate the ability to apply core development principles, practices, and procedures to multiple applications.

This candidate is required to serve as a lead resources on delivery, collaborate with other team members and interface with upstream/downstream application teams. Successful applicant will have to multi-task in a fast-paced team oriented environment while development and implementation of highly complex internet and intranet applications. This requires leveraging advanced knowledge and experience with Responsive Web Design (RWD), react.js, node.js and relevant JavaScript skills. Strong technical skills will be required to succeed in this role.

Job Responsibilities Include
Develop, direct, and assist in the preparation of moderately complex computer solutions in the maintenance and modification of new and currently used applications.
Lead projects, allocate and manage resources and manage the work of junior team members and vendor resources.
Play a technical SME role and participate in code reviews, design reviews, internal testing sign off for deliverables from EGS.
Analyze requirements and provide development estimates across project and BAU activities
Be the liaison with the onshore team and ensure communication and reporting of delivery from the offshore team
Ensuring quality and security of the solutions and address any remediations as needed
Collaborate with the engineering team counter parts to analyze, investigate and resolve open issues. Also, provide technical expertise to support team during incident/problem resolution.

Required Qualifications
5+ years of application development and implementation experience
7+ years of JavaScript framework experience (YUI, Angular, Node)
7 + years of JavaScript Frameworks experience (jQuery, Ext JS, Kendo UI and/or Angular JS)
7+ years of secure SDLC (System Development Life Cycle) methodologies experience
2+ years application security vulnerability detection and mitigation experience with Open Web Application Security Project (OWASP) Top 10 and SANS Common Weakness Enumeration Top 25
5+ years of experience analyzing requirements and designing new solutions for application and database components

Desired Qualifications
Excellent verbal, written, and interpersonal communication skills
Knowledge and understanding of test driven application development
Knowledge and understanding of Git or GitHub

Other Desired Qualifications
3+ years of React experience
Experience with Clean Coding concepts
Experience with Subversion
Experience identifying and remediating security vulnerabilities
Should be well versed with test driven development and be knowledgeable on associated tools and practices
Should be able to understand business requirements and translate to technical design
Ability to work independently with minimum supervision.
Should be good with SDLC processes and agile methodologies

Disclaimer

All offers for employment with Wells Fargo are contingent upon the candidate having successfully completed a criminal background check. Wells Fargo will consider qualified candidates with criminal histories in a manner consistent with the requirements of applicable local, state and Federal law, including Section 19 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act.

Relevant military experience is considered for veterans and transitioning service men and women.

At IBM, we know that transformation drives change, and it is in our DNA to continuously transform. Our Business Transformation Consultants help drive large scale change that spans IBM business units and geographies. As a part of this team, you will have the unique opportunity to be a part of driving IBM’s ongoing transformation as a company that continuously innovates and leads the market.

Your Role and Responsibilities

#GBSHJ19
IBM Global Business Services (GBS) is a team of business, strategy and technology consultants enabling enterprises to make smarter decisions and providing unparalleled client and consumer experiences in cognitive, data analytics, cloud technology and mobile app development. With global reach, outcome-focused methodologies and deep industry expertise, IBM GBS empowers clients to digitally reinvent their business and get the competitive edge in the cognitive era in over 170 countries.

Bottom line? We outthink ordinary. Discover what you can do at IBM.

IBM Global Business Services (GBS) is hiring a Senior (Sr.) Managing Consultant with subject matter expertise in modern web development and familiarity with Analytics and Artificial Intelligence. You will be managing large, complex solutions from beginning to end. In this dynamic role, you will work with data scientists, engineers, architects and subject matter experts to create unique, scalable applications.

We are looking for passionate and experienced developers who are interested in solving unique business problems. The ideal candidate will have a background in web development technologies, experience with server side technology (e.g. Python, Java, NodeJS), modern frameworks (e.g. React, Vue, Flask, Express) and deep knowledge in relational databases, No-SQL databases, and distributed systems.

You Will Be Responsible For
Building scalable solutions, creating applications, managing databases and environments, and transforming data. Opportunities include working with clients, defining key business problems, developing user stories and requirements, and delivering the solution.
Facilitating client discussions to gather underlying user design requirements, as well as software, data and analytics requirements. Documenting necessary architecture and wireframes.
Ability to get “hands dirty” to help deliver first of a kind solutions or to deliver POCs to help deliver value to our clients
Lead and mentor junior resources in both career and technical development

Required Professional and Technical Expertise

IBM Global Business Services (GBS) is a team of business, strategy and technology consultants enabling enterprises to make smarter decisions and providing unparalleled client and consumer experiences in cognitive, data analytics, cloud technology and mobile app development. With global reach, outcome-focused methodologies and deep industry expertise, IBM GBS empowers clients to digitally reinvent their business and get the competitive edge in the cognitive era in over 170 countries.

Bottom line? We outthink ordinary. Discover what you can do at IBM.

IBM Global Business Services (GBS) is hiring a Senior (Sr.) Managing Consultant with subject matter expertise in modern web development and familiarity with Analytics and Artificial Intelligence. You will be managing large, complex solutions from beginning to end. In this dynamic role, you will work with data scientists, engineers, architects and subject matter experts to create unique, scalable applications.

We are looking for passionate and experienced developers who are interested in solving unique business problems. The ideal candidate will have a background in web development technologies, experience with server side technology (e.g. Python, Java, NodeJS), modern frameworks (e.g. React, Vue, Flask, Express) and deep knowledge in relational databases, No-SQL databases, and distributed systems.

You Will Be Responsible For
Building scalable solutions, creating applications, managing databases and environments, and transforming data. Opportunities include working with clients, defining key business problems, developing user stories and requirements, and delivering the solution.
Facilitating client discussions to gather underlying user design requirements, as well as software, data and analytics requirements. Documenting necessary architecture and wireframes.
Ability to get “hands dirty” to help deliver first of a kind solutions or to deliver POCs to help deliver value to our clients
Lead and mentor junior resources in both career and technical development
At least 5 years in solution/application development across PoC, MVP, Production deployments
At least 5 years developing server-side web applications (e.g. nodeJS)
At least 5 years developing front-end data visualization and web pages (e.g. Vue, Angular, React, HTML5, CSS, less)
Intermediate to Advanced knowledge of data extraction and manipulation with various database such as MySQL, MongoDB, SQL Server, DB2, Postgres, etc.
Experience leading development teams and delivering solutions for

At Tableau, we are on a mission to help people see and understand data. We create intuitive and powerful analytics software that enables thousands of organizations and millions of people around the world to find insights in their data. The Augmented Analytics team is looking to advance us on this journey by putting the power of statistical analysis within reach of anyone with a question about their data.

To bring visualization and easy-to-use data analysis tools to our users, our research and development teams work on full data processing cycle: from database’s query processing, to data science (AI, machine learning, etc.), UI design, and cloud computing. If you are interested in mastering any of the above, Tableau is definitely the place for you.

We are looking for backend senior software engineers that will focus on the data engineering and data science of the product.

As a Senior Software Engineer on this team, you'll…
Leverage and advance our unique statistical engine to develop new automated statistical features in Tableau desktop and server.
Leverage and advance our query processing and federation engine to build data pipeline that enables the development of features and integration with available Augmented Analytics models, tools, and applications.
Mentor other software engineers by demonstrating an unrelenting focus on engineering excellence.
Advance your understanding of statistics and quantitative analysis; as well as modern AI and machine learning tools and applications.


Who You Are…
Experienced. You have experience writing code and a proven track record of shipping software. You have strong development skills programming in modern C++ and are unintimidated by other programming languages. Experience developing high-performance systems is a plus.
Versatile. You have the ability to quickly jump between different technologies of data engineering and data science.
Data Enthusiast. You believe in Tableau’s mission and are excited to play a part in it.
Intellectually Curious. You have a passion to continuously expand your areas of expertise, learning new ways to do things and understanding why things are the way they are.
Passion for statistics. You are interested in statistics and eager to learn more about it. A formal education in statistics is an asset, but not a requirement.
Passion for data processing. You are interested in how internal database works and eager to learn more about it. A formal education in database topics is an asset, but not a requirement.
A True Team Player. You enjoy collaborating with, learning from, and mentoring others. You make the people around you better.

What if nature could be harnessed to help farmers sustainably feed the planet? Since 2014, Indigo has questioned agriculture's full value chain to improve grower profitability, environmental sustainability, and consumer health. The company’s scientific discoveries and digital innovations have amplified new value from soil to sale, benefiting more than 10,000 growers to date. Indigo is also the company behind The Terraton Initiative, a global effort to drawdown one trillion tons of atmospheric carbon dioxide by unlocking the potential of agricultural soils. In 2019, Indigo was ranked #1 on CNBC’s Disruptor 50 list. Headquartered in Boston, MA, Indigo has additional offices in Memphis, TN; Research Triangle Park, NC; Sydney, Australia; Buenos Aires, Argentina; Basel, Switzerland; and São Paulo, Brazil.

As a Senior Front End Engineer on the Carbon team, you will work on building web and mobile applications supporting Indigo’s carbon sequestration effort. Indigo Carbon is mobilizing farmers to sequester carbon through regenerative farming practices, that will generate carbon credits and produce healthier food. Your expertise in front end application development will help us create best-in-class consumer facing applications that aid our mission. All farmers, who we enroll and guide through the process of changing their practices, will aid our mission of sustainably feeding the planet.

In this role, you will build applications that help our growers move towards better, more efficient agricultural practices. This is a new team in the engineering organization, so it is a great opportunity to build something from the ground up in the latest tech stack.

Responsibilities
Collaborate with Product Managers, UX designers, backend engineers, and data science engineers to spec, build, test and deploy code
Brainstorm features with product managers and UX designers based on your knowledge of the codebase
Learn about, use, and teach new web technologies
Expertly review code, have your code reviewed, and mentor other engineers


Competencies And Qualifications
You’re an engineer with deep experience building responsive web and mobile apps.
You have experience with multiple front-end frameworks. We primarily use Typescript, GraphQL, and React, but alternate experience is acceptable.
You care deeply about performance, usability, and accessibility.
You appreciate engaging and usable design, and sweat the details.
You're comfortable collaborating with teams to discuss technical and usability trade-offs.
You strive to create fast, reliable, and documented code that others can understand.
You might have experience with Data Visualization and UX patterns.
You bring a positive attitude, a sense of humor, and self awareness.

Indigo is committed to living our values, specifically “creating a work environment where everyone feels respected, connected, and has opportunities to learn and grow.” As part of living our values, we strive to create a diverse and inclusive work environment where everyone feels they can be themselves and has an equal opportunity of succeeding.

We’re looking for a frontend developer to build web applications on our cloud-based SiteWorx Industrial IoT (IIoT) platform. You’ll join a small team of highly motivated engineers based in Boston’s Seaport area and have the opportunity to drive high impact features from early on.

We value creating high-quality software through iteration, continuous integration, and automated testing. While shipping is always important, we also strive to create an environment that encourages creativity and experimentation, in order to create industry-leading products.

Our frontend stack uses Ember.js, ES6+, D3 and talks to a Golang, Postgres backend via REST API and websockets on AWS.

Primary Responsibilities
Design and develop web applications on the SiteWorx platform
Participate in all aspects of the product development lifecycle from requirements to deployment

Position Requirements
BS/MS/ME in Computer Science or equivalent
3-5+ years relevant work experience building production web applications in a modern JavaScript framework such as Ember, React, Vue, Angular, etc.
Work collaboratively with other engineers, product, and QA teams in a fast-paced environment
A desire to create clean, high-quality features through code review and automated testing
Understanding of the modern JavaScript ecosystem, including ES6, node, etc.
Have an attention to detail and a desire to build a great user experience
Be curious and self-motivated
An advocate for efficiency and sustainability
Experience building layouts with CSS/Sass/LESS
Experience with SVG or D3 is a plus, as is experience in data analysis or data visualization

About Us

Digital Lumens, an OSRAM business, is driving the Industrial IoT (IIoT) and smart building revolution through superior software, products, and system integration. Our cloud-based platform, SiteWorx, brings the tangible benefits of the IIoT to industrial environments worldwide, and leverages the power of intelligent, connected lighting and wireless smart sensors to deliver facility-wide control and new operational insight.

Our intelligent lighting controls and IIoT-based facility and process monitoring solutions have been deployed across more than 550 million square feet of space, and the company is distinguished by breakthrough technology, a management team of proven visionaries from the solid-state lighting and distributed networking industries, and proven results from clients in 45 countries.

Digital Lumens was founded in 2008 and became part of the global technology company OSRAM in 2017.

Interested in this position? If so, please email your resume with the job title in the subject line toclick apply.

GitHub is looking for an analytical and data-minded full stack engineer to help boost growth across GitHub’s various products. 

You’ll work alongside other engineers, designers, and stakeholders from product, marketing, and sales to build tools that affect GitHub’s reach, impact, and business metrics. You’ll make contributions to the GitHub Rails application as well as other services potentially written in Ruby, Go, JavaScript, or beyond!

Responsibilities
Collaborate with other engineers, designers, and stakeholders across product, marketing, and sales to build features, tools, and experiments that affect important business metrics.
Write clear, scalable, and well tested production quality code with an emphasis on maintainability.
Contribute to GitHub’s experimentation frameworks, and leverage industry-leading tools and best practices for experimentation, measurement, and implementation.
Communicate persuasively with peers to inspire cooperation.
Mentor, pair, and delegate work to encourage the growth of others.
Make well-reasoned decisions that inspire and energize others.
Provide technical leadership so that others can contribute confidently.
Help recruit, interview, and generally make GitHub a great home for developers



We’re looking for:
4+ years building web applications.
A high bar for writing clean, maintainable, scalable, and well-tested code.
Eagerness to get your hands dirty, learn new things, and leave things better than you found them.
Experience planning and executing growth strategies, or interest diving deep into the topic, is a plus.
Ability to navigate large codebases and get up to speed independently.
Excellent communication skills and an eagerness to collaborate and share knowledge with teammates.
Experience writing Ruby, Javascript and SQL, or are comfortable learning a new language.



Who We Are:

GitHub is the developer company. Over 40 million people use GitHub to build amazing things together across 100 million repositories. We make it easier for developers to be developers: to work together, to solve challenging problems, to create the world’s most important technologies. We foster a collaborative community that can come together—as individuals and in teams—to create the future of software and make a difference in the world.

Leadership Principles:
Customer Obsessed
Trust by Default
Ship to Learn
Own the Outcome
Growth Mindset
Global Product, Global Team
Anything is Possible
Practice Kindness
Fidelity Labs is looking for a Principal Frontend Engineer to join a newly founded startup. The startup’s focus is building innovative technology for financial advisors and their clients. This role will be hands-on leading the technology, architecture, implementation, testing and delivery of world class web applications. The Principal Frontend Engineer will work closely with technical leads, product managers and business analysts to move ideas from concepts to scale and bring these game-changing ideas to market.

The Team

Fidelity Labs holds a shared vision to operate as the world’s best corporate incubator and to shape the future of our industry. As part of a Fidelity Labs startup, you will contribute to the creation of a new fintech business that will drive growth for Fidelity and improve people’s financial lives. Startup teams incubated in Fidelity Labs benefit from access to centralized operations, HR, finance, and IT assets as well as industry experts, thought leaders and a massive customer base. At the same time, startup teams enjoy wide flexibility in the selection of appropriate technology, people, and strategies best suited to rapid prototyping, accelerated learning, and ultimately growing their businesses.

The Expertise You Have

Extensive software engineering experience
Expert level knowledge of JavaScript, HTML and CSS
Experience with a modern UI framework such as React, Angular or Vue
Proven track record of delivering products that customers love to use
Passion for testing as a core part of the development process
You thrive in fast-paced, ambiguous environments with high risks and high rewards
Bonus points for AWS, CI/CD, ES6, Webpacker, BEM, SASS, Redux or Flux



Company Overview

At Fidelity, we are focused on making our financial expertise broadly accessible and effective in helping people live the lives they want. We are a privately held company that places a high degree of value in creating and nurturing a work environment that attracts the best talent and reflects our commitment to our associates. We are proud of our diverse and inclusive workplace where we respect and value our associate for their unique perspectives and experiences. For information about working at Fidelity, visit FidelityCareers.com.

Fidelity Investments is an equal opportunity employe

Elastic is a search company with a simple goal: to solve the world's data problems with products that delight and inspire. As the creators of the Elastic Stack, we help thousands of organizations including Cisco, eBay, Grab, Goldman Sachs, ING, Microsoft, NASA, The New York Times, Wikipedia, and many more use Elastic to power mission-critical systems. From stock quotes to Twitter streams, Apache logs to WordPress blogs, our products are extending what's possible with data, delivering on the promise that good things come from connecting the dots. We have a distributed team of Elasticians across 30+ countries (and counting), and our diverse open source community spans over 100 countries. Learn more at elastic.co

Machine Learning at Elastic

Machine Learning (ML) for the Elastic Stack allows users to better understand the behavior of their data. We have developed an unsupervised machine learning engine that can plow through large amounts of data and automatically find those insights our users today have been proactively finding using search. Current use cases include finding anomalies within transactions / operational metrics, detecting uncharacteristic user behavior or finding malicious devices.

We have an exciting roadmap and are looking to hire an extraordinary Javascript Engineer to join us. You will have an amazing opportunity to join a small, highly experienced team where you can make an immediate impact and contribution to the development of our new machine learning offerings.

What You Will Be Doing

As a member of the team, you will contribute to the further development and ongoing maintenance of our ML focussed projects.

The ML user interface has to be both beautifully designed to help users to get insight out of their data and also operationally usable allowing them to easily set-up, configure and operationally manage their ML analysis jobs.

You do not need to be a machine learning expert, however you do need to be comfortable working in a data driven development environment using large complex datasets.

In addition, you will be working closely with data, integration, analytics and QA engineers, as well as collaborating with the core Kibana team and the amazing Elastic Stack community.

What You Will Bring
Strong front-end JavaScript, HTML, CSS experience (+3yrs)
At least 1 year’s professional experience with TypeScript
Good professional working experience with React
Deep understanding of UX/UI design principles
Ready to be part of a dedicated distributed team, having strong collaboration and communication skills
Strong analytical, problem solving, debugging and troubleshooting skills
Experience writing automated tests

Experience In These Areas Is a Plus
Knowledge, interest and a real passion for topics in data visualisations, statistics, machine learning, data analytics
Educational background in a mathematical discipline such as Mathematics, Physics, Engineering, Computer Science
Knowledge of IT Operations, IT Infrastructure, Application Performance Monitoring and/or IT Security domains

Additional Information - We Take Care Of Our People

As a distributed company, diversity drives our identity. Whether you’re looking to launch a new career or grow an existing one, Elastic is the type of company where you can balance great work with great life. Your age is only a number. It doesn’t matter if you’re just out of college or your children are; we need you for what you can do.

We strive to have parity of benefits across regions and while regulations differ from place to place, we believe taking care of our people is the right thing to do.
Competitive pay based on the work you do here and not your previous salary
Health coverage for you and your family in many locations
Ability to craft your calendar with flexible locations and schedules for many roles
Generous number of vacation days each year
Double your charitable giving — we match up to 1% of your salary
Up to 40 hours each year to use toward volunteer projects you love
Embracing parenthood with minimum of 16 weeks of parental leave

Elastic is an Equal Employment employer committed to the principles of equal employment opportunity and affirmative action for all applicants and employees. Qualified applicants will receive consideration for employment without regard to race, color, religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender perception or identity, national origin, age, marital status, protected veteran status, or disability status or any other basis protected by federal, state or local law, ordinance or regulation. Elastic also makes reasonable accommodations for disabled employees consistent with applicable law.
When was the last time you had an opportunity to work at a company that was forging an industry and enabling people to get from idea to impact – fast? Smartsheet’s purpose is to empower everyone to improve how they work. Our business is built on finding great people and getting out of their way while they build our award-winning Software as a Service (SaaS) offering. With over 10 million users, our platform gets used across different industries ranging from construction to retail to software development. This presents us with unique technical challenges.

We are looking for a Senior UI Software Development Engineer to transform our UI Framework into a decoupled architecture allowing our many development teams to build and deploy UI solutions quickly. You will mentor junior engineers, consult with principal engineers across the company and design comprehensive UI frameworks and component libraries. You will also consult with development teams as they implement the framework and components into the UI Framework.

You will work at our Engineering Office in Boston, MA.

Our team focuses on distributed decision-making that rewards ownership, transparency, and collaboration. Learn more about our platform here: Smartsheet Overview Video .

Job Responsibilities
Develop reusable components used across our product (React, Redux, JavaScript, Typescript, Node.js, HTML, and css)
Evaluate new technologies to bring into our stack
Consult with other teams across the organization on building UI components and frameworks
Create and promote a UI Framework standard
Work with design and UX groups to define UI standards
Become the Subject Matter Expert of our UI Architecture
Mentor junior UI Developers

Requirements
3+ years software development experience
5+ years web application development
1+ years experience in SaaS application development
Experience building highly scalable, high availability UI applications
Excellent written and verbal communication skills
Ability to work independently in a fast-paced environment with frequent production releases
Legally eligible to work in the U.S. on an ongoing basis
BS in Computer Science, a related field, or equivalent industry experience

Nice To Have
Experience transforming a monolithic UI into micro frontend architecture
Experience implementing responsive designs for mobile, tablet, and desktop browsers
Familiarity with SaaS apps (Google Docs, Salesforce)
Experience developing service framework

About Smartsheet

In 2005, Smartsheet was founded on the idea that teams and millions of people worldwide deserve a better way to deliver their very best work. Today, we deliver a cloud-based platform for work execution, empowering organizations to plan, capture, track, automate, and report on work at scale, resulting in more efficient processes and better outcomes. Smartsheet went public on the New York Stock Exchange in April 2018 and enables collaboration, better decision making, and accelerated innovation for over 76,000 domain-based customers in 190 countries, including 96 of the Fortune 100.

Our Culture

Smartsheet is a place where people love what they do and are empowered to make an impact every day. We support one another and achieve our goals as a team, not as individuals. Each person, at every level, gets to have an impact.

Smartsheet is an Equal Opportunity Employer. Individuals seeking employment at Smartsheet are considered without regard to race, ethnicity, color, age, sex, religion, national origin, ancestry, pregnancy, sexual orientation, gender, gender identity, gender expression, genetic information, physical or mental disability, registered domestic partner status, caregiver status, marital status, veteran or military status, citizenship status, or any other legally protected category

Smartsheet's Benefits (US)
Comprehensive medical, dental, and vision - 100% company-paid premiums for employees and all eligible dependents
Life Insurance, long term/short-term disability. Flexible Spending Account
15 days PTO to start, 10 paid holidays, Flexible sick leave, 12 weeks paid Parental Leave (+4 weeks unpaid)
Equity - Restricted Stock Units (RSUs) Equity with all offers
401k and Employee Stock Purchase Program
Opportunities for professional growth and development, including free Audible Membership, Free LinkedIn Learning Membership

As a Senior Front End Engineer, you will be an integral part of this brand new team at Sonos. You will be responsible for the design and implementation of new web functionality across a wide variety of Sonos scenarios for this new offering. You’ll view shipping V1 as the starting line and will rapidly and continuously learn from our customers and iterate.

About You

More than a candidate that checks every box, we’re looking for people who are excited to work, learn, and grow at Sonos—no matter their background or how they identify. If that’s you, we hope you’ll apply for this role.

You want to be part of a team.

You come with new ideas and a unique point of view. You look forward to collaborating with a diverse team of individuals. You assume everyone’s best intentions, welcome a healthy debate, and embrace differing opinions. You eagerly seek and give help. Transparency tops your list of values, and you proactively contribute to a culture of respect and inclusion.

You enjoy a challenge.

Inquisitive and focused, you see every challenge as an opportunity. You’re ambitious and comfortable making mistakes because you learn from them and bounce back quickly. You would rather create the future than wait for it. You prioritize long-term value over short-term objectives.

You love to listen.

You approach every interaction with curiosity and a desire to understand. You want to make a positive impact in the world. You’re passionate about culture and know the power that music, film, podcasts, games, and stories have to bring people together.

What You’ll Do
Develop software that enhances the user experience informed by the user’s role and persona.
Bring new and existing and aspects of the Sonos experience for these new markets to the browser by working in areas from the top to bottom of the web application stack.
Develop software that consistently provides insight into its usage, health and performance in the field.
Work closely with partner teams to understand, build upon, and adapt existing tech to accomplish new high value scenarios.

Skills You’ll Need

Basic Qualifications

Minimum 5+ years of professional software development experience. 
Proven track record of shipping reliable, extensible and maintainable web applications. 
Strong knowledge of web development using state of the art Javascript frameworks, HTML, CSS, and web application development tools. 
Degree in Computer Science, related engineering discipline, or equivalent experience.  

Preferred Qualifications

Unrelenting customer focus. 
Passion for elegant, efficient and scalable software development approaches. 
Experience with modern declarative JavaScript frameworks such as React, Angular, and/or Vue. 
Experience with strong typing via TypeScript of Flow. 
Polyglot excited to bring your horsepower to bear across a variety of problem spaces and technologies. 

More About Sonos

Sonos is a sound experience company. We pioneered multiroom wireless audio, made it sound amazing, and changed the way people listen, making it effortless for them to enjoy what they want, where they want, how they want.

Today we continue empowering listeners by developing new technologies, thoughtfully designing products, expanding our software platform, and crafting brilliant sound experiences while participating in a culture that values respect, transparency, collaboration, and ownership.

Together we’re working to positively impact the world and inspire everyone to listen better—because listening brings people together, builds understanding, drives change, and makes us happier.

Notice to European Job Applicants: Information you submit as a part of your job application will be used in accordance with Sonos EU Job Applicant Privacy Notice.

Notice to U.S. Job Applicants: Sonos is an equal opportunity employer. We evaluate qualified applicants without regard to race, color, religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, national origin, disability, veteran status, and other legally protected characteristics.

Follow the links to review the EEO is the Law poster and its supplement. The pay transparency policy is available here. Sonos is committed to working with and providing reasonable accommodations to individuals with disabilities. If you need a reasonable accommodation because of a disability for any part of the employment process, please send an e-mail to accommodations@sonos.com and let us know the nature of your request and your contact information.
Seniority Level
Associate

Industry
Marketing & Advertising Information Technology & Services Computer Software

Principal Speech Software Developer – Oracle Digital Assistant

LOCATION: SEATTLE, WA or REDWOOD CITY, CA PREFERRED



Conversational AI is changing the nature of user interfaces and changing the way people interact with enterprise software. Oracle is leveraging the power of AI and Deep Learning to bring world-class natural language and voice capabilities to Oracle’s Digital Assistant platform.

If you are looking for an exciting new opportunity as a speech scientist to help solve difficult problems, be creative, create success for customers, and engage with the product team to do some innovative research and development, please review our profile.



We are looking for someone who is:

Experienced with speech recognition. Knowledge of Kaldi is a plus.
Strong background in language modeling and machine learning. Relevant Master’s degree or PHD preferred.
Familiar with deep learning technologies and frameworks such as tensorFlow and PyTorch.
Eager to advance the state of the art for speech recognition.
Able to adapt to a fast-paced work environment and can quickly adjust to changing priorities.
Detail oriented with a focus on quality of the product, data, and code.
An experienced software development with 5+ years of professional development in at least one object-oriented programming language (C++, Java, C#). Python is a plus.
Has excellent communication skills with an ability to explain and write specifications that embody complex concepts to stakeholders within the team.
Fluency in spoken/read/written English. Speaking languages other than English is a plus.
Can tackle hard problems with tenacity and positivity.


Expected engineering tasks include:

Working closely together with software engineers and other speech scientists to build production-grade large vocabulary speech recognition language and acoustic models.
Research and implement new approaches and benchmark solutions against state of the art.
Data cleanup and curation as needed for modeling.
Maintain and contribute to training recipes, optimization efforts and performance tuning to meet accuracy, memory and run-time demands
Continuous improvement and maintenance of training and testing toolchains
Explore new prototyping frameworks, libraries and technologies by developing and implementing prototypes, algorithms and experiments which serve as proof-of-concepts
Advise and mentor junior research scientists, interns or students

Snap Inc. is a camera company. We believe that reinventing the camera represents our greatest opportunity to improve the way people live and communicate. Our products empower people to express themselves, live in the moment, learn about the world, and have fun together.

We’re looking for a Backend Engineer to join Team Snapchat! As a member of this team, you will design and implement the next generation of Snap’s multi-cloud architecture. Working from our Seattle, WA office, you’ll collaborate across engineering teams to build some of the most scalable, Tier-0 services at Snap such as our user service and friend graph. You will also solve exciting distributed systems problems like incremental state synchronization to build our core storage services, used by almost every product at Snap. Finally, you will help the team deprecate our monolithic architecture and move towards a layered service-oriented architecture.

What You’ll Do
Design, implement, and operate our most critical and scalable services - ranging from user identity services, friend graph, and our core persistence layer
Work across teams to understand product requirements, evaluate trade-offs, and deliver the solutions needed to build innovative products
Help make our team better by contributing to code reviews, documentation, and development process
Advocate for and apply best practices when it comes to availability, scalability, operational excellence, and cost management
Effectively mentor junior team members

Knowledge, Skills & Abilities
You have a track record of launching and maintaining features of medium to large scope with measurable impact
You are a self-improver, investing in improving your skills; you proactively seek out feedback on how to improve your own work and work of your team
Ability to collaborate and work well with others

Minimum Qualifications
BS/BA degree in a technical field such as Computer Science or equivalent years of experience
5 to 11 years of software development experience
Experience with backend services or distributed systems

Preferred Qualifications
Experience in at least one of the following areas:
Large-scale microservices and distributed systems
Cloud computing and storage systems
Infrastructure and large-scale system design
Security
Networking and data storage
Machine learning and natural language processing
Tools
Proven track record of operating highly-available systems at significant scale
Experience with Java, C++, and/or Python
Experience with NoSQL solutions, Memcache/Redis, Kubernetes, or Google/AWS services

At Snap, we believe that having a team of diverse backgrounds and voices working together will enable us to create innovative products that improve the way people live and communicate. Snap is proud to be an equal opportunity employer, and committed to providing employment opportunities regardless of race, religious creed, color, national origin, ancestry, physical disability, mental disability, medical condition, genetic information, marital status, sex, gender, gender identity, gender expression, pregnancy, childbirth and breastfeeding, age, sexual orientation, military or veteran status, or any other protected classification, in accordance with applicable federal, state, and local laws. EOE, including disability/vets. If you have a disability or special need that requires accommodation, please don’t be shy and contact us at accommodations-ext@snap.com .

What You'll Do:


Work on a world-class Customer Communications platform, which leverages data science and machine learning to operate intelligently and efficiently
Help to power and maintain the services that offer a full suite of digital capabilities, powering the communications platform for customers and users
Build scale and operate the telephony and messaging infrastructure, and working on experimental conversational chatbots and speech analysis frameworks

What You'll Bring:


6+ years' experience as a Software Engineer
Strong coding chops - Python (preferred) - Ruby, RoR, Javascript
Comprehensive background in building, deploying and operating distributed applications
Extensive experience building scalable services using modern cloud environments (AWS, Google Cloud)
Experience and passion for working in fast-paced early-stage startup environments
BA or MS in Engineering, Computer Science, or Math

Bonus Points:


Experience with cloud communication tools - TWILIO, Plivo, Nexmo
Experience building conversational chatbots
Experience working with modern telephony systems
Experience building messaging apps for large user bases

On Offer:


Strong base salary - Up to $220k
Impressive cash/stock bonus scheme
Really solid benefits

Write software to fulfill both well-specified, small-scoped work requests and larger, less well-defined work requests for your team's product(s). Work with Product Managers and other stakeholders to clarify requirements, to decompose large requests into smaller ones that can be executed sequentially or in parallel, and to refine and clarify Product and Engineering goals and ensure that they align with company objectives. Help design new systems and enhancements to existing systems to support substantial new features and products. Write software to fix complex bugs, triage newly reported bugs by estimating scope and priority of each bug, investigate problems, and recommend fixes for your team’s products. Provide feedback within your team and to peers in the Engineering and Product organizations regarding code changes made by other engineers, designs for new enhancements, and what they are doing well or where they have opportunities for growth. Write documentation for your team’s products, code, and work items. Share your expertise on products and technologies by mentoring other engineers and by helping them prioritize work items based on urgency, business impact, and goals. Interview candidates for various positions in the Engineering organization, and participate in group discussions on candidates’ fitness for those positions.

Minimum Requirements

Bachelor’s or foreign equivalent degree in Computer Science, Computer Engineering, Electrical Engineering, Mathematics or a closely related computer technical field
Two years of experience in software programming. Experience must include at least one of the following programming languages: Java, C, C++, C#, Python, Go, or Perl
One year of experience building applications using at least one of the following:Web application technologies including: HTML, CSS, or JavaScript; or
Databases, including MySQL, Mongo, or a similar program; or
A collection of systems connected and communicating via a network connection.
Experience may be gained concurrently.
Multiple positions available.
Position in Seattle, WA at Indeed, Inc. To apply, please send resume to work-with-us@indeed.com. Please reference job code GM65740 on resume.

We’re out to make the world a safer place by solving big problems and taking on the public safety challenges of our time. From our company's inception building the TASER device to a full suite of hardware and software solutions, we are focused on providing police agencies with the state-of-the-art devices and services they need to successfully serve and protect us. In the next few years, we're going to eliminate the burden of paperwork in policing, so officers can increase the time they spend building relationships and serving in their communities. We’ll put video at the heart of the police record so our justice system can get to the truth faster. And we won't stop innovating until the bullet is rendered obsolete.

It’s a big mission, but it’s one we’ll pursue relentlessly every single day.

Our team

In Digital Evidence Management System team (DEMS), we are solving some of the hardest cloud challenges today. We manage tens of petabytes of video from hundreds of thousands of officers around the world. Our solutions enhance the value of this evidence for law enforcement, the courts, and the public. If you are looking to join large-scale projects and collaboratively contribute to the technical direction of a team, this role is for you.

We believe that happy teams take good care of their customers, so we foster a friendly, open, introspective team culture that encourages everyone to speak their mind and deliberately avoids red tape, unnecessary rituals, politics, and jerks.

Your impact

You are a Backend Software Engineer with deep interest in backend technologies. You are excited about the care, feeding and growth of a high-availability, scalable cloud-based systems.

Come work in an exciting environment where you use your passion, experience, and analytical skills to help bring new solutions to public safety and leave a positive impact on the world.

Basic Qualifications
0-2 years of experience in software engineering
Fluent in managed languages such as Java, Scala, Go, C#, or similar
Familiar with database, especially SQL and Cassandra
You enjoy team work and love building complex systems

Preferred Qualifications
You write beautiful, simple, maintainable APIs for web applications
Familiar with JavaScript (and its frameworks like React, angular, etc), HTML, CSS
You are passionate about quality design, code, tools and architectures

Compensation And Benefits
Award-winning office and working environment with the newest technology
Competitive salary and a comprehensive benefit package
Discretionary PTO
Fun team activities and outings
Flexible working hours
Options for training in the US
Opportunities to ride along with local law enforcement

We are an equal opportunity employer and value diversity at our company. We do not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, color, national origin, gender, sexual orientation, age, marital status, veteran status, or disability status.
Seniority Level
Entry level

Industry
Information Technology & Services Computer Software Internet

EMC Corporation (a Dell Technologies company) is seeking a Software Engineer 2 at its Seattle, WA facility.
Summary of Duties: Develop highly complex distributed components and services that constitute ECS Object Storage stack, with emphasis on quality and customer experience. Responsible for the software design and development activities using a range of applicable technologies (e.g., programming languages, compilers, assemblers, debuggers, other tools) for highly available, geographically distributed products and services. Perform design, implementation, deployment, and maintenance of innovative software solutions. Design and develop the geographically distributed index layer that provides access via various RESTful protocols such as S3, Swift, Atmos as well as NFS, CAS, and HDFS protocols. Diagnose distributed computing problems and fix code defects. Perform requirements gathering and testing, as well as performance and load testing. Utilize software engineering best practices to ensure the standard of quality for all team deliverables by contributing to test automation and product validation and deployment pipelines. Write high quality distributed system software. Work closely with Product Management to gather business requirements and participate in product definition, feature scoping and prioritization. Drive the software development process towards quality-centric methodologies. Participate in on-call rotation and support ECS Escalation Engineering team on customer issues by performing troubleshooting, inspection and patch delivery. Interact with the Release Engineering team on improving build and release experience.

Qualifications: This position requires a Master’s degree in Computer Science or related field of study. The employer will alternatively accept a Bachelor's degree in Computer Science, or related field of study, plus 2 years of experience in the job offered or 2 years of experience in software engineering, or related occupation, in lieu of a Master’s degree. Requires experience in: programming in Java, C#, or C++ with a focus on networking, multithreading, and memory management; data structures and algorithms; software development; Linux; distributed storage and systems; databases; NoSQL; AWS S3 SDK; Docker; RESTful APIs; troubleshooting; writing concise descriptions of problem/solutions in a bug system; code review; knowledge base systems; and at least one modern scripting language, such a Bash, Python, or VBA. Experience may be gained concurrently through graduate-level coursework, research, or teaching experience.
Employer: EMC Corporation (a Dell Technologies company)
Location: Seattle, WA
How to Apply: Please email resume to jobs_dell@dell.com and include job title and employer posting number 000110.

Are you ready to re-invent the world of subscription boxes? Are you looking for an opportunity to define how customers discover exciting new products at Amazon? Join Product Replenishment team to help us build the next generation subscription/discovery box experience for our sellers and customers. Subscription box business is $5 Bn opportunity across hundreds of new sellers outside Amazon and existing 800+ Marketplace sellers who have an eligible subscription product. Our goal is bring new selection to our 270MM+ customers including fun ways for them to discover new products through curation algorithms that we would build based on customer preferences. As part of this initiative, you will be working on building end to end customer experience - discovery, purchase and managing their subscription box delivery and end to end seller experience - tools to support on boarding, product management and curation, inventory management and analytics and reporting. You will have an opportunity to delight our customers and contribute to the Amazon fly-wheel for single item sales.
The Software Development Engineer (SDE) experience is a unique one at Amazon. Teams are structured in small groups with a strong impetus to innovate, drive end to end ownership and meet critical business goals. Fresh college graduates get to rub shoulders with outstanding software engineers and researchers with industry leading technical abilities, solving challenging engineering problems that affect millions of Amazon customers. Engineers also get to collaborate and work with teams across the globe, in the process being exposed to a range of technologies, best practices and solution patterns. Our brown bag sessions and Principal talks are among the most popular presentations with healthy debate and a cross pollination of ideas. All this contributes to the grooming of the ‘fungible’ Amazon engineer who has exemplary technical skills, sharp business acumen and a strong drive to get things done.


Basic Qualifications
Bachelor's degree in Computer Science, Computer Engineering or related technical discipline
Excellent programming skills in either C, C++ or Java
Strong fundamentals in core Computer Science areas like Data Structures and Algorithms.
Preferred Qualifications
Quickly adapt to new development environments and changing business requirements
Learn new systems
Create reliable/maintainable code, and find creative and scalable solutions to difficult problems
The ability to communicate clearly and concisely both written and orally is a key competency as is demonstrable skill as a self-starter

Join the growing diverse and innovative team of the VW Automotive Cloud (VWAC), LLC based in the tech hub that is the Seattle region. VWAC, LLC is a newly formed entity and a US based extension of the German Car.Software Org of the Volkswagen Group of Companies. VWAC’s mission is to transform and define the future of mobility for people everywhere through the implementation of a cloud-based platform – designed to deliver innovative, new connected car services and solutions tailored to customer needs. By 2025, all new VW Group models will run on a vehicle operating system and the Volkswagen Automotive Cloud. This is an exciting opportunity to be part of a mission-driven and values-based culture that invests in its people and is obsessed with delighting its customers. Let’s make a good impact in people’s lives. Let’s bring to the world the future of mobility.

The Role

The Software Developer is responsible for researching, designing, implementing and managing software programs.The role will test and evaluate new programs, identify areas for modification in existing programs and subsequently develop modifications.The position is responsible for writing and implementing efficient code.
This is a new role on a new team so this developer will have the opportunity to create the technical design and development of cross-functional, multi-platform prototypes and POCs. We are looking for an experienced, energetic, and entrepreneurial developer who has successfully imagined, built and launched prototypes, POCs and pilots in a startup or at a big company. To fit in, you must be jazzed about delivering amazingly simple experiences that will redefine people’s relationship with cars or financial institutions.
Strategic Work – 10% of time
Educate and inform yourself and team members about technology opportunities
Continually participate in visioning exercises and help guide the innovation strategy for VW Automotive Cloud (VWAC)

Operational Work – 90% of time
Identify opportunities to use new technologies in the business together with the different business divisions
Integrate state-of-the-art ideas and developments into POCs, prototypes and pilots
Identify, evaluate and refine leading-edge tools and methods
Create and define tech stack for POCs, prototypes and pilots
Build prototypes and POCs

Primary Location

United States-Washington-Redmond

Required Experience
5+ years of software development experience
B.S. in Computer Science (or equivalent education)
Experience developing and deploying cloud-scale innovation
Required Skills
Ability to build partnerships and communicate with different audiences.
Full stack experience with at least one server-side software stack: (e.g. J2EE, .Net, Rails)
Experience with HTML, CSS, Javascript
Experience with cloud computing platform (e.g. Azure, AWS, Google Cloud)
Experience with at least one NoSQL Technology (e.g. Cassandra, MongoDB, HBase, DynamoDB etc.)



Desired Skills
Modern development practices – e.g. DevOps
Data Mining/Machine Learning
Map Reduce (Hadoop etc.)
Mobile programming experience (iOS, Android)
Embedded experience (QNX, Android etc.)
Work Flexibility
10% business travel
Are you ready to re-invent the world of subscription boxes? Are you looking for an opportunity to define how customers discover exciting new products at Amazon? Join Product Replenishment team to help us build the next generation subscription/discovery box experience for our sellers and customers. Subscription box business is $5 Bn opportunity across hundreds of new sellers outside Amazon and existing 800+ Marketplace sellers who have an eligible subscription product. Our goal is bring new selection to our 270MM+ customers including fun ways for them to discover new products through curation algorithms that we would build based on customer preferences. As part of this initiative, you will be working on building end to end customer experience - discovery, purchase and managing their subscription box delivery and end to end seller experience - tools to support on boarding, product management and curation, inventory management and analytics and reporting. You will have an opportunity to delight our customers and contribute to the Amazon fly-wheel for single item sales.
The Software Development Engineer (SDE) experience is a unique one at Amazon. Teams are structured in small groups with a strong impetus to innovate, drive end to end ownership and meet critical business goals. Fresh college graduates get to rub shoulders with outstanding software engineers and researchers with notable technical abilities, solving strategic engineering problems that affect millions of Amazon customers. Engineers also get to collaborate and work with teams across the globe, in the process being exposed to a range of technologies, best practices and solution patterns. Our brown bag sessions and Principal talks are among the most popular presentations with healthy debate and a cross pollination of ideas. All this contributes to the grooming of the 'fungible' Amazon engineer who has exemplary technical skills, sharp business acumen and a strong drive to get things done.

Basic Qualifications
Bachelor's degree in Computer Science, Computer Engineering or related technical discipline
Excellent programming skills in either C, C++ or Java
Strong fundamentals in core Computer Science areas like Data Structures and Algorithms.
Amazon is an Equal Opportunity Employer – Minority / Women / Disability / Veteran / Gender Identity / Sexual Orientation / Age

Embedded in a worldwide network Mercedes-Benz Research & Development North America continuously strives to remain at the forefront of successful automotive research and development. MBRDNA is headquartered in Silicon Valley, California, with key areas of Autonomous Driving, Advanced Interaction Design, Digital User Experience, Machine Learning, Customer Research, and Open Innovation. In Redford, Michigan, the focus is on Powertrain and eDrive technology as well as in Long Beach, where the teams test durability of the latest driver assistant and telematic systems. The Digital Hub in Seattle focusses on developing a cloud architecture and building out the cloud platform for the next generation of connected car services. The Testing and Regulatory Affairs Division in Ann Arbor and the Advanced Vehicle Design in Carlsbad complete the competence center.

Job Introduction: (Primary purpose of this position)

This center will be responsible for innovative software development for the global brand with a focus on highly available APIs and services leveraging cloud technologies. While this center is serving the US market directly, the product produced will be launched internationally, impacting the lives of millions of people.

Software engineer will design and develop large scale applications and cloud based services that will fundamentally change consumer experience with connected device worldwide. Successful candidates will operate in an agile environment, embrace DevOps practices and help mentor other team members as needed.

Key Tasks & Responsibilities

Develop new features, APIs and services
Integration with multiple systems
Operational support as needed

Required Qualifications

Minimum level of education required and required field of study: Computer science or related degree

Minimum Skills Required
2-5 yrs of overall experience
Experience with RESTful API design and development
Strong software development experience in distributed systems
Experience with continuous integration and continuous deployment tools and processes
Will accept equivalent work experience in lieu of formal education

Yes
Combination of Degree and Years of experience acceptable (minimum) :

Bachelors + 2 yrs / Masters + 0 yrs


Preferred Qualifications

Practical experience with API management tools
Strong communication skills
Experience with agile organizations
Experience with international teams

Imagine what we could do together. At Apple, new ideas have a way of becoming phenomenal products, services, and customer experiences very quickly. Bring passion and dedication to your job, and there’s no telling what we could accomplish.

Apple is looking for an experienced Software Engineer to help develop the next generation of Cloud Services infrastructure. You will be working on key components of the CloudKit platform and introducing new fundamental capabilities. Your work will help to power entirely new applications and scale existing ones, such as Cloud Services Drive, Cloud Services Photo Library and Cloud Services Backup.

This is your chance to put a dent in the Universe. You will work with world-class teams in Cupertino, San Francisco, Seattle, Boston & London who have a real passion for engineering and delivering features that maintain strong privacy guarantees to end users.

Key Qualifications
Experienced: designing, implementing, and operating highly scalable web services.
Resourceful: excellent analytical and problem solving skills.
Collaborative: the ability to thrive in a multi-functional organization through communication and delivery.
Curious: the desire and aptitude to independently learn.
Self-directed: the ability to drive a project from a simple idea to production.
User-focused: the user experience and the privacy of data come first.
Skills:
Go, Java, C, C++.
Kubernetes, Docker, Bazel.
AWS, GCP.
DescriptionWe’re a small and growing team shaping the future of release engineering at Apple, facilitating the delivery of Cloud Services most exciting products and services. You’ll play a key role developing distributed build and orchestration systems, increase the velocity and confidence of our deployments with enhanced observability and continuous delivery, and design tools and workflows that improve engineering efficiency. In this highly visible position you will collaborate with multi-functional teams to define, implement, and deliver systems that will power the next generation of Apple web services.

Do you love the challenge of solving complex problems that can have a direct impact on the success of the company? Then we have the job for you! We're looking for a talented and passionate person to join this amazing team — if you feel this is you, we'd love to hear from you.

Education & ExperienceBachelor's degree in computer science or equivalent.
Adobe is looking for a Software Engineer to join our Cloud Technology Collaboration Services team, building a high quality platform to enable sharing of assets for millions of creative professionals! In this role, you will focus on ensuring excellence in a REST API that will help ultimately enable desktop, mobile, and web applications to provide collaboration features for their growing community of creatives. You will join a team dedicated to expanding the collaboration platform behind some of Adobe’s most phenomenal and innovative creative products. You will contribute to a high performing engineering team to design, implement, test and build key features for these services.
Someone who is hungry to apply there newly acquired skills to help us develop and test our Cloud Collaboration Platform
Gets passionate about solving complex problems
Is open and interested in learning new technologies, skills, and programming languages as needed
Comfortable with Agile process and development model

The Role

This Will Include

Working in a collaborative team environment to help build, document, test, deploy, monitor, and/or maintain a suite of REST APIs.
Participating in a growing Scrum team with continuous integration and deployment to multiple environments and geographies.
Providing Documentation as needed for specifications and/or test planning
Building and/or testing REST APIs
Optimizing and/or testing for scalable performance and robustness
Deploying and updating Services using Kubernetes
Supporting other product teams and/or clients within Adobe
Monitoring and supporting multiple Services using Enterprise diagnostic tools

What We Expect From You
Ability to learn quickly
Work optimally within a team environment.
Write well-engineered and tested code.
Proven knowledge of Cloud Computing.
Knowledge of the fundamentals of HTTP protocols and familiar with caching and/or message queuing

Technologies we Use
Languages such as Golang, Java
Tools such as Splunk, Datadog, AWS, Azure

At Adobe, you will be immersed in an exceptional work environment that is recognized throughout the world on Best Companies lists. You will also be surrounded by colleagues who are committed to helping each other grow through our unique Check-In approach where ongoing feedback flows freely.

If you’re looking to make an impact, Adobe's the place for you. Discover what our employees are saying about their career experiences on the Adobe Life blog and explore the meaningful benefits we offer.

Adobe is an equal opportunity employer. We welcome and encourage diversity in the workplace regardless of race, gender, religion, age, sexual orientation, gender identity, disability or veteran status.


Write software to fulfill both well-specified, small-scoped work requests and larger, less well-defined work requests for your team's product(s). Work with Product Managers and other stakeholders to clarify requirements, to decompose large requests into smaller ones that can be executed sequentially or in parallel, and to refine and clarify Product and Engineering goals and ensure that they align with company objectives. Help design new systems and enhancements to existing systems to support substantial new features and products. Write software to fix complex bugs, triage newly reported bugs by estimating scope and priority of each bug, investigate problems, and recommend fixes for your team’s products. Provide feedback within your team and to peers in the Engineering and Product organizations regarding code changes made by other engineers, designs for new enhancements, and what they are doing well or where they have opportunities for growth. Write documentation for your team’s products, code, and work items. Share your expertise on products and technologies by mentoring other engineers and by helping them prioritize work items based on urgency, business impact, and goals. Interview candidates for various positions in the Engineering organization, and participate in group discussions on candidates’ fitness for those positions.

Minimum Requirements

Bachelor’s or foreign equivalent degree in Computer Science, Computer Engineering, Electrical Engineering, Mathematics or a closely related computer technical field
Two years of experience in software programming. Experience must include at least one of the following programming languages: Java, C, C++, C#, Python, Go, or Perl
One year of experience building applications using at least one of the following:Web application technologies including: HTML, CSS, or JavaScript; or
Databases, including MySQL, Mongo, or a similar program; or
A collection of systems connected and communicating via a network connection.
Experience may be gained concurrently.
Multiple positions available.
Position in Seattle, WA at Indeed, Inc. To apply, please send resume to work-with-us@indeed.com. Please reference job code GM65740 on resume.

As a frontend engineer at Fintech Startup, you will be responsible for designing and implementing the customer experience which will carry our entire organization. We want to change the idea of what it means to make a payment: for consumers, merchants, and sources of capital. We focus on hiring engineers who have the experience to execute quickly and with foresight. This often means you have learned from implementing large scale projects, and you understand the successes to repeat and the various failures to plan against. We want people who have practical experience, and who can clearly articulate and implement a complex system from scratch.

General Requirements
Preferably 2 to 4+ years of professional software engineering
You have strong attention to detail and a love for diagnosing complex problems
You have the ability and desire to understand developer problems and fix them
The ability to thrive and grow with a high level of autonomy and responsibility
A love for getting deep into technical details and the experience to not get bogged down in those details
The ability to quickly implement a non-trivial SPA with a framework of their choice and/or as a native Android or iOS application
Designed large applications and understands the pitfalls, patterns, and tradeoffs required during varying levels of an application's lifecycle
Good API design sense and understands what makes an API a pleasure to work instead of "just okay"
Knowledge of standard security practices, protocols, and principles
A desire to dive deeper into the stack and who can meaningfully contribute to our entire codebase

Responsibilities
Create and drive a roadmap for the team, working across functions and managing complex dependencies that will help us scale
Have deep involvement in day to day operational decisions which will impact the future of the company for years to come
Be heavily involved in recruiting and building a team of colleagues with whom you would most want to work
Design, implement and oversee Fintech Startup's frontend experience across web and mobile

Work directly with CTO - in a company using data to solve big world problems!

Are you passionate about building tools that improve one of life’s most stressful experiences: buying a home? Join the team crafting a stellar new buyer experience at Zillow!

Launched in 2018, Zillow Offers is one of the fastest-growing product groups at Zillow. Our goal is to engage buyers and sellers that are stuck on the sidelines, helping them envision and complete a move. We want to make changing homes as easy as possible: from finding your dream home, to financing and escrow, to moving in. Zillow Offers buys homes directly from interested homeowners and sells them on the open market. As we sell these homes, we are building next-generation experiences for buyers to find, tour, and purchase a home with transparency and control.

About The Role

This role is focused on differentiating all aspects of the buyer experience. We are responsible for growing buyers' loyalty toward Zillow-owned homes. Since we own the home, we have unparalleled access to create unique experiences that are deeply integrated with the Zillow website and app.

Our tech stack is a React + ES7 frontend that communicates with Python and Java services via GraphQL. Most deploys are either automated (once they pass CI) or a one-click deploy to production. We ship code multiple times per day to millions of customers.

You Will
Lead the architecture and implementation of web services, APIs, and front-end components.
Build delightful user experiences for prospective homebuyers.
Partner with teams across Zillow Group.
Ship maintainable, reusable code at scale.

Who you are

You May Be a Great Fit If You
Love clean design and enjoy thinking about how users (both internal and external) interact with the software you write.
Flourish with a high level of autonomy and ownership.
Hold yourself to a high bar and multiply the impact of others.
Have full stack development experience with Python, C#, Go, Ruby, or JavaScript.

Zillow is a highly-collaborative environment. We are committed to building a team that represents a variety of backgrounds, perspectives, and skills. The more inclusive we are, the better our work will be. We take our core values to heart — they inform everything we do. If that resonates with you, get in touch!

Get to know us
Zillow Group houses the largest portfolio of real estate brands on mobile and the web. We are on a mission to rewire the real estate transaction and are building transformational tools and services that make it easier for everyone to find and get into a home they love. We are working to create an on-demand real estate transaction experience for every stage of the home lifecycle -- for buyers, sellers, renters and borrowers - and we're well on our way. No matter what job you're in, you will play a critical role in making this vision a reality for millions of people.

At Zillow Group, we're powered by our inclusive work culture, where everyone has the support and resources to do the best work of their careers. Our efforts to streamline the real estate transaction is supported by our passion to empower people and enrich lives around everything home, a deep-rooted culture of innovation, a fundamental commitment to Equity and Belonging, and world-class benefits. But, don't just take our word for it. Read our reviews on Glassdoor and recent recognition from multiple organizations, including: Fortune 100 Best Companies to Work For (#69), Fortune Best Workplaces for Diversity (#38), Fortune Best Workplaces for Parents (#31), Fortune Best Workplaces for Women (#20), Fatherly's Best Workplaces for New Dads (#37), JUST Capital 100 Company (#69), Bloomberg Gender Equality Index constituent.

Zillow Group is an equal opportunity employer committed to fostering an inclusive, innovative environment with the best employees. Therefore, we provide employment opportunities without regard to age, race, color, ancestry, national origin, religion, disability, sex, gender identity or expression, sexual orientation, or any other protected status in accordance with applicable law. If there are preparations we can make to help ensure you have a comfortable and positive interview experience, please let us know.

This role is based in Seattle, WASHINGTON - we are conducting local interviews in your town this month!


The Oracle Cloud Infrastructure (OCI) team can provide you the opportunity to build and operate a suite of massive scale, integrated cloud services in a broadly distributed, multi-tenant cloud environment. OCI is committed to providing the best in cloud products that meet the needs of our customers who are tackling some of the world’s biggest challenges.


We offer unique opportunities for smart, hands-on engineers with the expertise and passion to solve difficult problems in distributed highly available services and virtualized infrastructure. At every level, our engineers have a significant technical and business impact designing and building innovative new systems to power our customer’s business critical applications.


Oracle is focused on delivering developer focused cloud services and enhancing the experience of building and running serverless applications. As a part of Oracle’s Cloud Infrastructure organization, the serverless group is responsible for delivering services that make developing for cloud easy. We enable developers to focus on the code by handling everything else from reliability, scaling, and robustness while abstracting away all the infrastructure details. 

We are looking for someone who has experience:

 

Architecting and developing distributed web applications.

Working with container technologies like Docker and Kubernetes.

Owning the end-to-end development, continuous integration, testing, and deployment of services.

Operationally managing web services.

 As a part of this team, you will be regularly collaborating with other engineers, architects and project managers across the world. So, great collaboration skills are essential. We're a fairly new team, so there is a great opportunity to make a big impact. We believe this team and mission sits squarely at the center of Oracle's future, and this is an opportunity to rethink the way we develop applications for the cloud.

 Basic Qualifications

3+ years of experience in software development.

Experience in software design and coding in a modern programming language.

Experience developing distributed systems and understanding of scale, reliability and performance.

Bachelor’s degree in computer science or equivalent.

 Preferred Qualifications

Experience developing in Go.

Significant open source contributions.

Experience developing web services.

Experience with Docker and Kubernetes.

Experience mentoring other engineers and working with remote teams.

Great communication skills (written and verbal).

Master’s degree in computer science or equivalent.

 

Oracle is an Equal Employment Opportunity Employer. All qualified applicants will receive consideration for employment without regard to race, color, religion, sex, national origin, sexual orientation, gender identity, disability and protected veterans status or any other characteristic protected by law

Waymo is the self-driving technology company with a mission to make it safe and easy for people and things to move around. Building on software and sensor technology developed at Google, Waymo is now launching the world’s first fully self-driving transportation service that will take members of the public from A to B at the touch of a button.

The Perception team at Waymo Seattle develops cutting-edge technologies and machine learning models to enable our self-driving cars to make sense of the world. This requires detection, recognition, tracking and understanding of all relevant objects in the surrounding of the vehicle. It is vital to perform these tasks precisely for safe navigation in complex traffic scenarios and such level of precision is only possible by relying on a diverse set of sensors including LIDARs, cameras and radars.

We are looking for researchers and software engineers in the Seattle area who are passionate about developing Computer Vision and Machine Learning techniques for the perception systems on our self-driving cars, and have an incessant drive to improve the performance of our technology stack. You will be part of a creative team of engineers and researchers who solve similar challenging problems and help advance our state of the art perception system.

In This Role You'll
Investigate and develop Computer Vision algorithms and ML models for the perception system.
Work on deployment of these models on a large fleet of Waymo vehicles.
Evaluate and understand the challenges that need to be tackled to have a safe and comfortable experience in our vehicles.


Required Qualifications
B.Sc. in Computer Science, Electrical Engineering, Mathematics or a related field.
Hands-on experience in Computer Vision, Computer Graphics, or Machine Learning projects (2+ years).
Strong C++ and/or Python programming skills.


Bonus Qualifications
PhD or MsC in Computer Vision, Machine Learning, Computer Graphics or a related field.
Extensive experience in deep learning.
Industry research or production experience.


At Waymo, we don’t just accept difference - we celebrate it, we support it, and we thrive on it for the benefit of our employees, our products and our community. We are committed to equal employment opportunity regardless of race, color, ancestry, religion, sex, national origin, sexual orientation, age, citizenship, marital status, disability, gender identity or Veteran status. We also consider qualified applicants regardless of criminal histories, consistent with legal requirements. If you have a disability or special need that requires accommodation, please let us know.



EMC Corporation (a Dell Technologies company) is seeking a Software Engineer 2 at its Seattle, WA facility.
Summary of Duties: Develop highly complex distributed components and services that constitute ECS Object Storage stack, with emphasis on quality and customer experience. Responsible for the software design and development activities using a range of applicable technologies (e.g., programming languages, compilers, assemblers, debuggers, other tools) for highly available, geographically distributed products and services. Perform design, implementation, deployment, and maintenance of innovative software solutions. Design and develop the geographically distributed index layer that provides access via various RESTful protocols such as S3, Swift, Atmos as well as NFS, CAS, and HDFS protocols. Diagnose distributed computing problems and fix code defects. Perform requirements gathering and testing, as well as performance and load testing. Utilize software engineering best practices to ensure the standard of quality for all team deliverables by contributing to test automation and product validation and deployment pipelines. Write high quality distributed system software. Work closely with Product Management to gather business requirements and participate in product definition, feature scoping and prioritization. Drive the software development process towards quality-centric methodologies. Participate in on-call rotation and support ECS Escalation Engineering team on customer issues by performing troubleshooting, inspection and patch delivery. Interact with the Release Engineering team on improving build and release experience.

Qualifications: This position requires a Master’s degree in Computer Science or related field of study. The employer will alternatively accept a Bachelor's degree in Computer Science, or related field of study, plus 2 years of experience in the job offered or 2 years of experience in software engineering, or related occupation, in lieu of a Master’s degree. Requires experience in: programming in Java, C#, or C++ with a focus on networking, multithreading, and memory management; data structures and algorithms; software development; Linux; distributed storage and systems; databases; NoSQL; AWS S3 SDK; Docker; RESTful APIs; troubleshooting; writing concise descriptions of problem/solutions in a bug system; code review; knowledge base systems; and at least one modern scripting language, such a Bash, Python, or VBA. Experience may be gained concurrently through graduate-level coursework, research, or teaching experience.
Employer: EMC Corporation (a Dell Technologies company)
Location: Seattle, WA
How to Apply: Please email resume to jobs_dell@dell.com and include job title and employer posting number 000110.

Documents are essential to most real estate transactions today. There are hundreds of types of documents that are processed during the lifecycle of a transaction: purchase contracts, pay stubs, W-2s, appraisals, closing disclosures, and many more! We have thousands of human operators who are manipulating these documents and extracting data from them day in and day out. The mission of the Document Intelligence team is to use modern technological advancements to automate human tasks related to document handling so that we could unlock efficiency gains to improve the speed and decrease the cost of a real estate transaction. Most importantly, we’re liberating our fellow Redfinians -- real estate agents, mortgage underwriters, and escrow specialists -- from menial daily tasks they have to endure to work with documents so that they could spend more time making important decisions, and providing high-quality service to our customers.

We’re using state of the art technologies to solve these problems, including various Artificial Intelligence (AI) methods: Optical Character Recognition (OCR), Computer Vision (CV), Natural Language Processing (NLP), and Machine Learning (ML). We’re looking for a well-rounded Senior Engineer who is an effective full-stack developer, eager to solve hard problems and is also interested in working with systems that are utilizing AI (no prior AI experience required).

Who You Are

You are a senior developer with 8+ years of experience developing full-stack, customer-facing applications and have built APIs.
You own technical projects from design to implementation to production.
You love writing robust code that grows with the business that is both maintainable and well tested.
You spearhead engineering changes to raise the quality of development across the team and the rest of the engineering organization.
You are a teacher and a mentor: you have the leadership skills (and the patience) to improve the developers around you.
When you disagree, you disagree constructively, with respect for everyone else's opinions and ideas.
You have experience working on an agile engineering team with a focus on shipping high quality, performant consumer-facing products
More than anything, you share a passion for our mission to radically change the way people make one of the biggest decisions of their lives.
Technologies we use and teach

Great engineers want to work on emerging technologies. Our website and backend are built with Java, Spring, Postgres, Python, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, React, DynamoDB, S3, and various other web services, and tools/libraries. In production, we run on Linux, and leverage Docker and Kubernetes. We do our development using IntelliJ on MacBook Pro laptops. We use Git, Bazel, and do full CI/CD.

We offer

Support and resources to continue learning, a brilliant team with which to collaborate, and a commitment to your career so you can grow with the company under a management team that has experience building start-ups into profitable, publicly traded companies.
You’ll get far more responsibility than at a big company, while at the same time far less stress than you will find in a 2-person garage startup.
You'll see the fruits of your labor released to the web every day and you'll share in our joy as we hear back from customers, bloggers, and national media.
Competitive compensation packages with a salary, bonuses, and restricted stock grants.
In school or graduated within last 9 months? We encourage you to apply to openings on the Student Jobs site
Note: By applying to this position your application is automatically submitted to the following locations: Kirkland, WA, USA; Seattle, WA, USA

Minimum Qualifications
Bachelor's degree in Computer Science, or similar technical field, or equivalent practical experience.
Software development experience in one or more general purpose programming languages.
Experience working with two or more from the following: web application development, Unix/Linux environments, mobile application development, distributed and parallel systems, machine learning, information retrieval, natural language processing, networking, developing large software systems, and/or security software development.
Working proficiency and communication skills in verbal and written English.


Preferred Qualifications
Master’s degree, Doctorate's degree, or further education in Engineering, Computer Science or other technical related field.
4 years of relevant work experience in software development.
Interest and ability to learn other coding languages as needed.
Ability to speak and write English fluently and idiomatically.


About The Job

Google's software engineers develop the next-generation technologies that change how billions of users connect, explore, and interact with information and one another. Our products need to handle information at massive scale, and extend well beyond web search. We're looking for engineers who bring fresh ideas from all areas, including information retrieval, distributed computing, large-scale system design, networking and data storage, security, artificial intelligence, natural language processing, UI design and mobile; the list goes on and is growing every day. As a software engineer, you will work on a specific project critical to Google’s needs with opportunities to switch teams and projects as you and our fast-paced business grow and evolve. We need our engineers to be versatile, display leadership qualities and be enthusiastic to take on new problems across the full-stack as we continue to push technology forward.

Google aspires to be an organization that reflects the globally diverse audience that our products and technology serve. We believe that in addition to hiring the best talent, a diversity of perspectives, ideas and cultures leads to the creation of better products and services.

Google is and always will be an engineering company. We hire people with a broad set of technical skills who are ready to take on some of technology's greatest challenges and make an impact on millions, if not billions, of users. At Google, engineers not only revolutionize search, they routinely work on massive scalability and storage solutions, large-scale applications and entirely new platforms for developers around the world. From Google Ads to Chrome, Android to YouTube, Social to Local, Google engineers are changing the world one technological achievement after another.

Responsibilities
Design, develop, test, deploy, maintain and improve software.
Manage individual project priorities, deadlines and deliverables.

At Google, we don’t just accept difference—we celebrate it, we support it, and we thrive on it for the benefit of our employees, our products and our community. Google is proud to be an equal opportunity workplace and is an affirmative action employer. We are committed to equal employment opportunity regardless of race, color, ancestry, religion, sex, national origin, sexual orientation, age, citizenship, marital status, disability, gender identity or Veteran status. We also consider qualified applicants regardless of criminal histories, consistent with legal requirements. See also Google's EEO Policy and EEO is the Law. If you have a disability or special need that requires accommodation, please let us know by completing this form .

Snap Inc. is a camera company. We believe that reinventing the camera represents our greatest opportunity to improve the way people live and communicate. Our products empower people to express themselves, live in the moment, learn about the world, and have fun together.

Snapchat is the camera used by millions of people every day to Snap with family, watch Stories from friends, see events from around the world, and explore expertly-curated content from top publishers. In short, we are a passionate team working hard to build the best platform in the world for communication and storytelling.

We’re looking for a C++ Software Engineer to join Team Snapchat to support our computer vision efforts, from algorithmic development to building tools and applications. Working from our Seattle office, you will cover various platforms and environments but the consistent thread is producing high quality code and having high-level input in the design and implementation of these products.

What You’ll Do
Contribute your coding skills to new internal and external products and tools
Architect, design, implement and deploy cross-platform client features and frameworks
Partner with key product owners, customers, and engineering leadership to identify correct priorities of development
Evaluate technical tradeoffs of every decision and collaborate with other engineers on the best development practices
Perform code reviews that guarantee code quality
Collaborate on designing new software and processes
Do code reviews and care about code quality, while also iterating quickly
Build robust, lasting, and scalable products

Minimum Qualifications
BS/BA in a technical field such as Computer Science or equivalent experience
5+ years of experience working with systems implemented in C++, client or server

Preferred Qualifications
Strong CS fundamentals
Good problem solving skills
Good understanding of {TCP,UDP}/IP stacks
Familiarity with modern C++ (C++14/C++17)
The ability to take an unfamiliar algorithm, understand it, translate it to code and improve it
Dedication to code quality, performance and continuous improvement

At Snap, we believe that having a team of diverse backgrounds and voices working together will enable us to create innovative products that improve the way people live and communicate. Snap is proud to be an equal opportunity employer, and committed to providing employment opportunities regardless of race, religious creed, color, national origin, ancestry, physical disability, mental disability, medical condition, genetic information, marital status, sex, gender, gender identity, gender expression, pregnancy, childbirth and breastfeeding, age, sexual orientation, military or veteran status, or any other protected classification, in accordance with applicable laws. If you have a disability or special need that requires accommodation, please don’t be shy and contact us at accommodations-ext@snap.com .

There has never been a better time to indulge in the science and technology of Artificial Intelligence. We are a group of people who love what we do. Our founders have a wealth of experience working on various ground-breaking products including self driving cars, AWS AI services, GMail, Google Docs and flash storage systems. Backgrounds include key roles at Google, AWS, Uber, founding team of a startup which had a billion dollar IPO, and degrees from IIT, Stanford and Dartmouth.

We are looking for talented backend software engineers, machine learning software engineers and research scientists to be part of the founding team. You will help build the product that applies unsupervised learning to model the world and automatically creates and manages production grade AI systems. As an initial member of the founding team, you will own a significant chunk of the company, shape its culture and work on state-of-the-art science and technology.
Responsible for implementing various algorithms to do automated feature extraction and dataset augmentation, optimizing runtimes of neural network algorithms and building higher level abstractions for various common AI/ML techniques.
Candidates will need to have a BS or MS from top notch CS programs with industry experience. We are looking for machine learning software engineers who have experience building at least one of the following:
ML/AI models which are in production
New neural network algorithms based on research papers
Low level performance optimization of deep learning systems
Machine learning platforms

IMDb sits at the intersection of the entertainment, media, and technology markets inside the world’s most innovative and consumer-centric company – Amazon.com. IMDb employees enjoy the benefits of working for Amazon with the autonomy of working on a small, nimble team, with people who love movies & TV. As a software development engineer at IMDb, you will have the opportunity to learn and use Amazon technologies from all over the company to build amazing products, which will be used directly by fans and movie & TV industry professionals.


Basic Qualifications
2+ years of non-internship professional software development experience
Programming experience with at least one modern language such as Java, C++, or C# including object-oriented design
1+ years of experience contributing to the architecture and design (architecture, design patterns, reliability and scaling) of new and current systems.
Preferred Qualifications
Track record of building and delivering mission critical, 24x7 production software systems
Experience with the Java language and Spring framework
Working knowledge of the React JavaScript framework
Deep understanding of web development and best practices
Working knowledge of common web technologies (e.g. HTTP, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX, REST)
Passion for movies, TV, and entertainment

Skytap is seeking talented Web Backend Software Engineers to join us in developing our core server application. Written primarily in Ruby on Rails with a host of other interesting technologies under the hood, the web backend powers our REST API and models all UI objects, from user accounts and VPN subnets to x86 and IBM Power virtual machine desktops. You'll work closely with the web frontend team to deliver a stunning and intuitive user experience. Our core server application exposes complex virtualization technology as higher-level concepts which make Skytap easy to use without being a hacker. 


We use Agile development techniques like Scrum and release features weekly. Our services are built primarily with open source software and we use languages including Ruby, Elixir, Python, Java, and C/C++ running on Linux and Kubernetes. We also use our own product to power the development process. 


As a Web Backend Software Engineer you'll design and build new features, and adapt existing systems to meet new requirements. Working with other web backend engineers, as well as people on the frontend, platform, and product management teams, you'll help define the details of the product and personally build it.


Responsibilities:

Design and implement REST APIs, which power our UI as well as our users' software.
Write code which communicates with the database and Skytap-internal services.
Collaborate with other teams to learn about networking and virtualization concepts.
Use your skills to convert technical concepts into an intuitive user experience.
Focus on server-side programming but be able and willing to develop features end to end, including writing HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.
Participate in defining and meeting scalability, uptime, and performance goals.
Rapidly build and evolve major features in collaboration with product management.
Help resolve major customer technical issues.
Research and experiment with new technologies, architectures, and standards.
Write elegant and succinct code.
Write tests for your code in our test framework.
Collaborate with our talented engineers, user experience designers, and product managers.

Desired Skills and Experience:

Good communication and collaboration skills.
Grasp of modern web frameworks such as Ruby on Rails, Phoenix, or Django.
Understanding of the HTTP protocol.
Experience designing RESTful APIs.
Experience with browser technologies: JavaScript, CSS, HTML.
Experience writing scalable, highly-available production software.
Understanding of code profiling and optimization to improve performance.
Exposure to relational databases such as MySQL or PostgreSQL.
Self-starter and willingness to unblock yourself.
Experience with revision control systems such as Git, Mercurial, or SVN.
Experience with Unix tools such as bash and grep.
Experience with Docker/Kubernetes, ElasticSearch, Java, or C/C++ is a plus.
2+ years experience required.

GitHub is changing the way the world builds software, and we want you to help build GitHub! We’re looking for an experienced full-stack software engineer to join a passionate, adaptive, and distributed group of engineers working to improve the ideation, organization, and focus of the world’s software development teams. The Projects team builds project management tools to help modern software teams collaboratively workflow their ideas into GitHub, then into code, and tracked through to production.

You’ll work with our team of engineers, designers, and product managers to build and maintain customer-facing experiences and deliver them into the hands of millions of developers across the world.

Responsibilities:
Write, review and maintain code primarily in Ruby and JavaScript (React, TypeScript)
Write architecture briefs and proposals, carry out code experiments, and build prototypes to learn how we can achieve planetary scale with our systems
Own both customer and developer happiness for your products in production, working with your own and other teams to build operational transparency and resiliency into every layer of deployed applications
Coordinate with engineering and product leads to define, prioritize, and task projects that help us meet business objectives
Document the systems you help build
Work with support to triage and debug technical support requests
Own and advocate for the health and quality of the systems that the team builds, participate in an on-call rotation and respond to incidents as necessary
Provide technical leadership, mentorship, pairing opportunities, and code reviews to encourage the growth of others



Minimum Qualifications:
At least five years building web applications in production
Two+ years Ruby on Rails experience
Experience with SQL and general database knowledge
Experience with JavaScript and front-end client libraries like React
Solid knowledge of testing principles
At least 1 year of remote work experience on a software team
Strong communication skills -- you speak and write clearly. We’re a distributed team so we’re extra mindful about communication.



Preferred Qualifications: 
Experience building project management software
Experience with search technologies like Elasticsearch
Experience with distributed databases at scale
Experience with streaming data pipelines
Experience with telemetry systems (e.g. Datadog, Sentry, VividCortex, Splunk)

Launched in 2011, Twitch is a global community that comes together each day to create multiplayer entertainment: unique, live, unpredictable experiences created by the interactions of millions. We bring the joy of co-op to everything, from casual gaming to world-class esports to anime marathons, music, and art streams. Twitch also hosts TwitchCon, where we bring everyone together to celebrate, learn, and grow their personal interests and passions. We’re always live at Twitch. Stay up to date on all things Twitch on LinkedIn , Twitter and on our Blog .

About The Role

Twitch enables content creators to live-stream content to their communities across the globe. At Twitch we are committed to building the best Advertising experience for our creators, advertisers and the viewers. Our content is live, shared and engaging so our advertising should follow suit.

Bounty Board is the world’s first two-sided, scalable marketplace, and is changing the way that brands connect with broadcasters and their communities. We take pride in our mission to help creators earn a living through entertaining and educating their viewers. With Bounty Board you'll join a passionate team that is changing the way broadcasters make a living doing what they love on Twitch.

Twitch is seeking engineers with the curiosity to develop features and APIs that guide the Bounty Board and new Ad engagement programs. Through these systems, we give creators the control and data they need to get promoted and help Twitch distribute advertising. Our products range from industry standard advertising formats to creative real-time experiences special to Twitch. The ideal contributor has experience building and delivering high-quality production web services in an SOA environment. You’ll work with product managers, UX designers, data scientists and engineers of all disciplines to create a beautiful and engaging product, iterate based on customer feedback, and ship early and often, using some of the latest tech across the stack.

This is a great opportunity to have an impact on your favorite creators at one of the fastest growing tech and entertainment products in the world. You’ll grow by taking on engineering challenges involving massive scale, high availability, cross-platform implementation, and new-to-the-world solutions. Your work will be seen by thousands of content creators and millions of viewers, and underpins Twitch’s most important new 2020 programs. Come help us build the future of Multiplayer Entertainment. Bring your learning mindset and sense of humor - we’re looking forward to meeting you.

You Will
Work across both technical and business focused teams to provide value to our creators
Design and ship software
Brainstorm with designers, product managers, and engineers to develop new features
Obsessively care about the customer’s experience
Work across the stack to ship features that enhance broadcaster and brand experience
You Have:
Bachelor’s degree or above in Computer Science or prior engineering experience
Proficient coder in one the following: Go, Elixir, Python or similar languages
Proficiency with HTML, CSS, and experience with at least one JavaScript framework
Experience developing web applications and their backend APIs
Bonus Points
1+ years of experience with React or Redux, or other modern web frameworks
Hands-on experience building systems using Amazon Web Services (EC2, DynamoDB, Lambda, CloudWatch , Kinesis )
1+ years of experience building or consuming GraphQL APIs

At Uber, we ignite opportunity by setting the world in motion. We take on big problems to help drivers, riders, delivery partners, and eaters get moving in more than 600 cities around the world.

At Uber, we believe technology has the power to make transportation more efficient, accessible, and safer than ever before. Self-driving technology has the potential to make these benefits an everyday reality for our customers, but it’s not going to happen overnight. Building best-in-class self-driving technology will take time, and safety is our priority every step of the way. Operating inclusively and transparently, while displaying responsible behavior in a structured development are critical to safety. We at ATG seek candidates who will role model these values.

We welcome people from all backgrounds who seek the opportunity to help build a future where everyone and everything can move independently. If you have the curiosity, passion, and collaborative spirit, work with us, and let’s move the world forward, together.

About The Role

At the ATG, we are ambitious, engaged and excited about transforming the way the world moves. With locations in San Francisco, Pittsburgh, Boulder, Toronto, and Seattle, the Advanced Technologies Group is comprised of Uber's self-driving engineering team dedicated to self-driving technologies, mapping, and vehicle safety.

The Seattle team focuses on the problem of labeling data needed to train self driving vehicles how to perceive the real world. We work closely with perception and prediction engineers to understand the specific challenges they are facing and then figure out how we can deliver data in a scalable and high-quality manner. We build tools and platforms that are used by engineers across Uber ATG as well by a large community of annotators world-wide. We focus on scalability, usability and rapid development.

We need engineers that are interested in being a very active participant in the product planning, engineering, deployment, and maintenance lifecycle of a large web application that is able to integrate the highest standards in usability and interaction design with cutting edge research in computer vision algorithms to help humans and computers work together to solve one of the most complex and challenging problems that exists today.

We need your skills and passion to help make it happen! We are looking for highly motivated and self-driven engineers with the skills and focus to meet our goals.

What You'll Do
Design and implement RESTful API services that can be consumed by web-clients as well as other services.
Work with Computer Vision Engineers to understand the capabilities of their models and tools to understand how to best integrate and expose those to users.
Architect, design, implement, and maintain backend services that cross multiple subject areas including media management, task dispatching, authorization/authentication, data indexing and caching, and data extraction.
Troubleshoot performance bottlenecks, track down bugs, and participate in on-call rotations.
Work with self-driving vehicles - interacting and shaping robotic technology!

What You'll Need

Coding skills: You are comfortable reading and developing production quality software in languages like Ruby, Python and Javascript.

Architecture and Design: Our platform uses a highly distributed infrastructure and experience or knowledge of the following tools will be helpful: Linux, AWS Infrastructure, SQL (Postgres), Redis, Elasticsearch, Docker, Message Queues, S3, HTTP, RPC frameworks (thrift/gRPC).

About The Team

At the Advanced Technologies Group (ATG), we are building technologies that will transform the way the world moves. Our teams in Pittsburgh, San Francisco, Boulder, and Toronto are dedicated to mapping, software and hardware development, vehicle safety, and operations for self-driving technology. Our teams are passionate about developing a self-driving system that will one day move people and things around more safely, efficiently, and cost-effectively.

At Uber, we believe technology has the power to make transportation more efficient, accessible, and safer than ever before. Self-driving technology has the potential to make these benefits an everyday reality for our customers, but it’s not going to happen overnight. Building best-in-class self-driving technology will take time, and safety is our priority every step of the way. Operating inclusively and transparently, while displaying responsible behavior in a structured development are critical to safety. We at ATG seek candidates who will role model these values.

At Disney, we’re storytellers. We make the impossible, possible. The Walt Disney Company is a world-class entertainment and technological leader. Walt’s passion was to continuously envision new ways to move audiences around the world—a passion that remains our touchstone in an enterprise that stretches from theme parks, resorts and a cruise line to sports, news, movies and a variety of other businesses. Uniting each endeavor is a commitment to creating and delivering unforgettable experiences — and we’re constantly looking for new ways to enhance these exciting experiences.

The Cloud Platform Engineering (CPE) financial intelligence team plays a critical business role by providing actionable financial intelligence to help inform and accelerate business decisions. We enable Disney teams to more effectively meet their financial responsibilities by delivering meaningful cost and usage data, analysis and reporting.

We are looking for an individual who is self-motivated, learns quickly, and drives solutions despite occasional ambiguity. This person will interact closely with product owners and business leaders and will need to have strong communication skills, a collaborative approach, and be able to provide leadership with reporting decisions.

Responsibilities
Design, educate and implement scalable data solutions for large structured and unstructured datasets in the cloud.
Build business value and savings opportunities by identifying trends from collected data and models.
Communicate insights, design and implementation to both technical and non-technical audiences.
Collaborate with data engineers, and organizational leaders to recommend data strategies and provide expertise for analytic and reporting decisions.
Design and architect high quality data models for data-lakes, data-warehouses, and data-marts.
Implement secure and auditable data infrastructure.

Basic Qualifications
7+ years of Data Engineering experience
2+ years of experience using cloud technologies
Expertise with SQL, data analysis, and reporting.
Strong ability to organize, analyze, and disseminate information.
Experience driving and completing projects through technical leadership in a complex, matrixed organization.
Experience translating business needs into technical system requirements.
Proactively identify and solve data issues with attention to detail.
Experience working with multiple disparate, complex, large datasets.
Eagerness to adapt and learn.

Preferred Qualifications
Experience writing software in Python.
Experience with PySpark, Pandas or equivalent data platform.
Proven experience in keeping up with emerging technologies.
Knowledge and familiarity with data visualization and presentation tools and strategies.
Understanding of data sovereignty and data localization and how they impact implementation for data processing, aggregation, analysis and presentation.
Current cloud professional certification

Required Education
BS/BA in Computer Science or equivalent experience

About The Walt Disney Company (Corporate)

At Disney Corporate you can see how the businesses behind the Company’s powerful brands come together to create the most innovative, far-reaching and admired entertainment company in the world. As a member of a corporate team, you’ll work with world-class leaders driving the strategies that keep The Walt Disney Company at the leading edge of entertainment. See and be seen by other innovative thinkers as you enable the greatest storytellers in the world to create memories for millions of families around the globe.

About The Walt Disney Company

The Walt Disney Company, together with its subsidiaries and affiliates, is a leading diversified international family entertainment and media enterprise with the following business segments: media networks, parks and resorts, studio entertainment, consumer products and interactive media. From humble beginnings as a cartoon studio in the 1920s to its preeminent name in the entertainment industry today, Disney proudly continues its legacy of creating world-class stories and experiences for every member of the family. Disney’s stories, characters and experiences reach consumers and guests from every corner of the globe. With operations in more than 40 countries, our employees and cast members work together to create entertainment experiences that are both universally and locally cherished.

This position is with The Walt Disney Company (Corporate), which is part of a business segment we call The Walt Disney Company (Corporate).

Disney Worldwide Services, Inc. is an equal opportunity employer. Applicants will receive consideration for employment without regard to race, color, religion, sex, national origin, sexual orientation, gender identity, disability or protected veteran status. Disney fosters a business culture where ideas and decisions from all people help us grow, innovate, create the best stories and be relevant in a rapidly changing world.

From the beginning, Starbucks set out to be a different kind of company. One that not only celebrated coffee and the rich tradition, but that also brought a feeling of connection. We are known for developing extraordinary leaders who share this passion and are guided by their service to others.

Payments Technology is an exciting and fast evolving engineering group within Starbucks Technology responsible for processing billions of dollars throughout the world. Our mission is to optimize and deliver industry leading payment experiences at Starbucks and low friction consumer experiences. You will be deeply involved in design and implementation of highly available, scalable and resilient services and will partner with product owners to build new capabilities and features. The focus of this role will be on retail customer experiences and bridges cloud, data center, and in-store technologies.

As a Software Development Engineer, You Will
Develop performant, resilient, scalable, and highly available modern software.
Create innovative and impactful retail customer experiences.
Translate user requirements into technical specifications and designs.
Deliver high quality software using Agile/Kanban development methodologies.
Enable the realization of strategic initiatives and operational improvements in a large-scale enterprise environment

We’d Love To Hear From People With
4+ years of professional industry experience with software development in .NET Core / C#
Strong understanding of the payment processing industry including card-present, certification and PCI information security standards.
Experience with working on a public cloud platform such as Amazon Web Services, Azure, or Google Cloud Platform.
Familiarity with containerization and orchestration technologies such as Docker and Kubernetes.
Experience in designing and developing a significant component or feature of a scalable service.
Experience working with distributed systems and architectures, including SOA, SaaS and microservices approaches.
Strong verbal and written communications skills are a must, as well as the ability to work effectively across internal and external organizations.
Bachelor’s degree in Computer Science or related field.

The Search Experience Team, or "Search XP" for short, is a highly skilled engineering team focused on providing the best possible experience for home shoppers. We own the core consumer-facing search experience, one of the most visited pages on the web today, and are working hard building new features to bring users to the content they're looking for, and infrastructure on both the front end and back end to support our growing traffic. All we need is you!

About The Role

Have you ever shopped for a new home? The process can be daunting. Whether you’re buying or renting, there is seemingly no end to the number of factors to consider when making such an important decision. Our team owns the core search results page on Zillow, which is visited by millions of home shoppers every month. Our goal is to improve the home shopping process, making finding your next home as delightful and efficient as possible.

We are looking for a developer who obsesses about technology and who cares deeply about the quality of the product for our consumers and the business. We embrace ambitious projects, and also sweat the details from both consumer and technology perspectives. We prioritize our work, seek out complex problems, and work with others to build best-of-class web experiences. If this sounds like you, we’d love to hear from you!

Responsibilities For This Role Include
Iterating quickly with a team of developers.
Translating product requirements into code that performs efficiently and allows for reusability and extension.
Collaborating with other engineering leaders throughout the organization to build toward and maintain a consistent technical vision.
Providing technical expertise and pragmatic architecture recommendations and decisions to help guide the development process on the team.

Who you are
A bachelor's degree in Computer Science or related field or equivalent experience.
Five years of full-stack experience and recently demonstrated passion for developing consumer-facing features.
Demonstrated experience working with JavaScript frameworks like React, Vue.js, or AngularJS.
Related experience writing high quality backend service code in Java, Node.js, or Python.
A passion to create the web’s best home shopping experience.
Self-directed and experienced in collaborating across teams.

Get to know us
Zillow is the leading real estate and rental marketplace dedicated to empowering consumers with data, inspiration and knowledge around the place they call home, and connecting them with the best local professionals who can help. Zillow is part of Zillow Group, whose mission is to build the largest, most trusted and vibrant home-related marketplace in the world.

At Zillow Group, we're powered by our inclusive work culture, where everyone has the support and resources to do the best work of their careers. Our efforts to streamline the real estate transaction is supported by our passion to empower people and enrich lives around everything home, a deep-rooted culture of innovation, a fundamental commitment to Equity and Belonging, and world-class benefits. But, don't just take our word for it. Read our reviews on Glassdoor and recent recognition from multiple organizations, including: Fortune 100 Best Companies to Work For (#69), Fortune Best Workplaces for Diversity (#38), Fortune Best Workplaces for Parents (#31), Fortune Best Workplaces for Women (#20), Fatherly's Best Workplaces for New Dads (#37), JUST Capital 100 Company (#69), Bloomberg Gender Equality Index constituent.

Zillow Group is an equal opportunity employer committed to fostering an inclusive, innovative environment with the best employees. Therefore, we provide employment opportunities without regard to age, race, color, ancestry, national origin, religion, disability, sex, gender identity or expression, sexual orientation, or any other protected status in accordance with applicable law. If there are preparations we can make to help ensure you have a comfortable and positive interview experience, please let us know.

Do you want to build a next generation system for enhancing human perception? Can you imagine a future where humans and machines work in concert to create a better world? We can. Come build it with us.

Proprio is a Seattle startup developing a system for real-time immersive video and mediated reality interaction. We develop cutting edge algorithms and custom hardware to enhance human capabilities in high precision activities such as spine and brain surgery.

The ideal candidate has excellent problem solving skills and is not afraid of a challenge. Our goal is ambitious. The consequences of success are lasting improvements for society. We are serious about pushing the technological envelop to solve real-world deficiencies across a variety of industries.

At Proprio, you’ll enjoy the ability to greatly influence product design, work across multiple domains, and have a voice in developing our culture. We value diversity in all forms and have at our core a strong sense of ethics and what it means to be a company actively pursuing social good. Our team works closely with leading medical and research institutions and has a deep background in neurosurgery, medical devices, entrepreneurship, robotics, and computer vision.

Candidates should provide a cover letter describing their experiences detailed above - portfolio or website is appreciated.

Examples Of Relevant Experience
Worked on production level solutions that have successfully been deployed.
Hands-on experiences in image segmentation, image registration, and medical image reconstruction, signal processing, 3D mesh analysis.
Hands-on experiences in computer vision, localization, sensor fusion, probabilistic models.
Demonstrated expertise in implementing medical image analysis algorithms.
Demonstrated ability to systematically testing, evaluating and reporting the algorithms on large data sets in a fast-paced environment.
Familiarity with visualization and CV tools and libraries: OpenCV, ITK, VTK, PCL.
Familiarity with machine learning frameworks such as (Py)Torch and TensorFlow.
Familiarity with medical image processing software such as Slicer3D and ITKSnap.
Ability to thrive in a start-up environment, embracing ambiguity, and creative problem solving skills.
PhD or MS degree in CSE, EE, BME and +4/5 years of relevant experiences.

Additional Desirable Qualifications
Experience with high performance computing approaches such as CUDA/OpenCL/OpenMP.
Experience with Multi-thread programming.

Preferred Experience In Coding Languages
C++
C#
Matlab
ROS (or other message-passing frameworks)
Python (other scripting language experience is appreciated)
Headhunters and recruitment agencies may not submit resumes/CVs through this Website or directly to managers. Proprio does not accept unsolicited headhunter and agency resumes. Proprio will not pay fees to any third-party agency or company that does not have a signed agreement with Proprio.

At Capital Group, how we work is defined by shared values that include absolute integrity, respect and collaboration. But it’s more than that. It’s smart and highly driven people united in purpose to serve our investors and one another.

Bring your energy and unique perspective to Capital and you’ll have the opportunity to grow with us professionally, personally, and financially. You’ll be part of a team that genuinely cares about helping you succeed. You’ll work alongside talented colleagues, many of whom build long careers while progressing through multiple roles, establishing lifelong friendships and making a difference in our communities. In return for your contributions, you’ll receive premier compensation and benefits, and a company-funded retirement plan that ranks among the most generous.

Do you want to drive global impact through a company with nearly $2 trillion assets under management? Do you want to help millions of families reach their financial goals? Do you want to help build our next generation investment platform? Would you like to leverage the latest open source software running in AWS?

We are seeking several Software Development Engineers to help build data platforms and machine learning models that our investment analysts and portfolio managers use to make better investment recommendations and decisions. This role will collaborate directly with senior investment professionals and other technology associates to create and implement detailed quality technical designs for moderately complex applications using existing and emerging technology platforms. The ideal candidate for this individual contributor role will be passionate about our mission and will drive for superior long-term investment results through the application of modern engineering and analytical methods.

Responsibilities
Independently implement new features in a highly collaborative work environment alongside product managers and fellow engineers.
Write legible, resource-efficient, and performant code.
Collaborate with business partners and internal customers.
Share technical solutions and product ideas through team planning, design review, pair programming, code review and technical discussions.
Take on projects and make software enhancements that improve team software and processes.

Requirements
BS in Computer Science or related field.
3+ years’ experience with at least one modern programming language such as Java, Python, C++ or C#. Strong OO or Functional design skills with understanding of common design patterns.
Computer Science fundamentals including data structures, algorithms and complexity analysis.
Experience in the fields of machine learning, data science, NLP, and AI.
Excellent knowledge of software engineering best practices (e.g. Agile software development, test-driven development, unit testing, code reviews, design documentation, etc…)
Willingness and ability to own all stages of development process design, testing, implementation, operational support.
Outstanding communication skills, ability to establish and maintain a close working relationship with distributed team members and business partners.
Knowledge of data stores, SQL and No-SQL preferred.
Experience with AWS services (S3, containers – ECS & EKS, ElasticSearch, Lambda) preferred.


Our mission is to automate the world’s apps and we are obsessed with it. We build AI agents that can test apps at scale so that your favorite mobile apps, web apps and games can be shipped faster and at higher quality. There’s an incredible market demand and we are in a unique position to grow and support it. We’re looking for unconventional thinkers who want to stretch their brains and become nerd famous along the way. Our early-stage startup is backed by the most reputable VCs who know AI, including Gradient, Google’s AI investment arm.

Areas of Focus
Invent elegant solutions to hard problems. You will have the opportunity to work across the entire stack from infrastructure to APIs to front end work
Become deeply familiar with existing code and processes; troubleshoot issues and implement new features
Quick feedback is critical to the success of the team and customers. Implement effective instrumentation both on the client and server side applications
Pay extra attention to non-functional requirements (Performance, Scalability, Reliability, High Availability etc.)

Projects looking to be staffed
Building e2e ETL pipelines
Core product feature development
API services
Device (iOS, Android, Windows, MacOS, Linux) automation

What Skills Do I Need?
Bachelors or Masters degree in Computer Science or Computer Engineering or equivalent experience
Strong computer science fundamentals, data structures, algorithm design and problem-solving skills
Minimum of 5 years of experience with application development in a rapid iteration/agile software development team
Proven python programming experience
Familiarity with GitHub, Google Cloud
Prior experience preferred for one or more of the following: API server management, data pipeline management, micro-service architecture, bash scripting, unix commands

Benefits

Competitive salary and meaningful equity in a fast-growing startup
Comprehensive medical, dental, and vision coverage for you and your dependents
Open vacation policy and corporate holidays
Paid parental leave program
401k plan
Commuter benefits or parking
MacBooks, monitors, headphones, and whatever else you need to be productive
Is there something missing? Let us know and we'll add it
At Lyft, our mission is to improve people’s lives with the world’s best transportation. To do this, we start with our own community by creating an open, inclusive, and diverse organization.

Here at Lyft, data is the only way we make decisions. It is the core of our business, helping us create a world-class transportation experience for our customers and providing insights into the effectiveness of our product launch & features.

The visual analytics platform team builds Lyft's data visualization infrastructure that powers all aspects of our business. We build open-source visualization software (e.g. Superset) as well as integrate 3rd-party solutions (e.g. Tableau) into the Lyft infrastructure ecosystem. You will be a part of an experienced engineering team that is building infrastructure and tooling that support Tableau servers to power visual analytics at Lyft.

You will report into an Engineering Manager in Seattle.

Responsibilities
Integrate, and scale Tableau servers as part of Lyft infrastructure
Design and implement systems that integrate Tableau services with other microservices at Lyft to aid visual analytics
Write well-crafted, well-tested, readable, maintainable code
Participate in code reviews to ensure code quality and distribute knowledge
Conduct root cause analysis on production issues with other engineers
Respond to production incidents and determining how we can prevent them in the future


Experience
3+ years of software engineering industry experience
Experience designing and implementing distributed systems
Experience building and running RESTful web services on cloud platforms
Experience with data warehousing platforms such as Hive/Presto
Strong skills in scripting language such as Python or Ruby


Benefits
Great medical, dental, and vision insurance options
In addition to 11 observed holidays, salaried team members have unlimited paid time off, hourly team members have 15 days paid time off
401(k) plan to help save for your future
18 weeks of paid parental leave. Biological, adoptive, and foster parents are all eligible
Monthly commuter subsidy to cover your transit to work
20% off all Lyft rides

he Walt Disney Company has a rich tradition of creating innovative products and magical experiences for millions of people around the world. Software Engineers are at the heart of that innovation and magic, building platforms, services, tools and infrastructure for an unmatched collection of content and brands such as ABC, Disney, and ESPN.

As a member of a diverse and talented organization, the frontend engineer crafts elegant and extensible solutions, at scale, using modern frameworks and technologies to deliver features that people interact with, and rely on, every day.

If You
Demonstrate determination in finding solutions to complex puzzles
Have the curiosity to research and learn new technologies
Employ positive thinking and are able to work constructively in a diverse team setting
Are passionate about web development
Value learning and being exposed to new experiences
Love working in a startup culture
then working at Disney is unlike anything else. We have the latest technology, game-changing ideas, and world-class talent. Come be a part of our team and help us find new ways to interact with users, however and wherever they connect with our brands.

Responsibilities
Architect and develop core site functionality using server-side templating and JavaScript
Develop and maintain video players and components that enable inline video content across Disney websites
Prototype new features
Research and evaluate applicable technologies
Define and implement best practices to continually increase performance and scalability
Review code and pull requests to ensure product and design specifications are met
Work with product and project management to refine specs and timelines
Partner with other engineering teams to deliver best solutions
Mentor and provide feedback to other engineers

Basic Qualifications
Proven mastery of frontend web development technologies and principles
Comprehensive knowledge of JavaScript, JS frameworks, and server-side templating
Experience with task automation (Grunt, Gulp, WebPack) and CSS Preprocessors (Less, Sass)
Demonstrated ability to research and learn new technologies
Strong communication skills and attention to detail
Driven and self motivated
Minimum 6+ years relevant industry experience


n school or graduated within last 9 months? We encourage you to apply to openings on the Student Jobs site
Note: By applying to this position your application is automatically submitted to the following locations: Mountain View, CA, USA; San Bruno, CA, USA; San Francisco, CA, USA; Sunnyvale, CA, USA

Minimum Qualifications
Bachelor's degree in Computer Science, related technical field or equivalent practical experience.
Experience with one or more programming languages such as Java, C/C++, C#, Objective C, Python, JavaScript, or Go.
Experience in computer vision/machine learning, image processing, or computer graphics.
Experience in computational photography or ISP (3A and image enhancement algorithms) development.


Preferred Qualifications
MS degree in Computer Science, Electrical Engineering, Computer Engineering or PhD in Computer Science or related technical field.
Experience with camera automatic control algorithm development implementation (i.e. auto white balance, auto focus, auto exposure, auto flicker detection/correction, auto scene detection).
Experience in GPU, Halide, or other functional languages.
Interest in consumer cameras and photography.


About The Job

Google's software engineers develop the next-generation technologies that change how billions of users connect, explore, and interact with information and one another. Our products need to handle information at massive scale, and extend well beyond web search. We're looking for engineers who bring fresh ideas from all areas, including information retrieval, distributed computing, large-scale system design, networking and data storage, security, artificial intelligence, natural language processing, UI design and mobile; the list goes on and is growing every day. As a software engineer, you will work on a specific project critical to Google’s needs with opportunities to switch teams and projects as you and our fast-paced business grow and evolve. We need our engineers to be versatile, display leadership qualities and be enthusiastic to take on new problems across the full-stack as we continue to push technology forward.

As a Software Engineer, you will work hands-on with scientists and engineers in one of the most advanced image quality labs built. You will also research, learn, build, and deploy camera systems that will excite users across the world!

Google is and always will be an engineering company. We hire people with a broad set of technical skills who are ready to take on some of technology's greatest challenges and make an impact on millions, if not billions, of users. At Google, engineers not only revolutionize search, they routinely work on massive scalability and storage solutions, large-scale applications and entirely new platforms for developers around the world. From Google Ads to Chrome, Android to YouTube, Social to Local, Google engineers are changing the world one technological achievement after another.

Responsibilities
Design, develop, implement and optimize algorithms for Google products.
Develop new algorithms to improve the image/video quality (SNR, color reproduction, stabilization, facial enhancements) or enable new photography features.
Develop auto white balance, auto exposure, auto focus, auto flicker detection/correction, auto scene detection algorithms for Google products.
Work cross-functionally with hardware teams to support algorithm implementation and optimization.
Integrate imaging simulation controls, image analysis and data visualization.

At Google, we don’t just accept difference—we celebrate it, we support it, and we thrive on it for the benefit of our employees, our products and our community. Google is proud to be an equal opportunity workplace and is an affirmative action employer. We are committed to equal employment opportunity regardless of race, color, ancestry, religion, sex, national origin, sexual orientation, age, citizenship, marital status, disability, gender identity or Veteran status. We also c

Note: By applying to this position your application is automatically submitted to the following locations: Mountain View, CA, USA; Palo Alto, CA, USA; San Bruno, CA, USA; San Francisco, CA, USA; Sunnyvale, CA, USA

Minimum Qualifications
Bachelor's in Computer Science or related technical field or equivalent practical experience.
Software development experience in one or more general purpose programming languages.
Experience in one or more of the following: test automation, refactoring code, test-driven development, build infrastructure, optimizing software, debugging, building tools and testing frameworks.


Preferred Qualifications
Master's or PhD degree in Computer Science or related technical field.
Experience with one or more general purpose programming languages including but not limited to: Java, C/C++, C#, Objective-C, Python, JavaScript, or Go.
Scripting skills in Python, Perl, Shell or another common language.


About The Job

Google's software engineers develop the next-generation technologies that change how billions of users connect, explore, and interact with information and one another. Our products need to handle information at massive scale, and extend well beyond web search. We're looking for engineers who bring fresh ideas from all areas, including information retrieval, distributed computing, large-scale system design, networking and data storage, security, artificial intelligence, natural language processing, UI design and mobile; the list goes on and is growing every day. As a software engineer, you will work on a specific project critical to Google’s needs with opportunities to switch teams and projects as you and our fast-paced business grow and evolve. We need our engineers to be versatile, display leadership qualities and be enthusiastic to take on new problems across the full-stack as we continue to push technology forward.

Google aspires to be an organization that reflects the globally diverse audience that our products and technology serve. We believe that in addition to hiring the best talent, a diversity of perspectives, ideas and cultures leads to the creation of better products and services.

Google is and always will be an engineering company. We hire people with a broad set of technical skills who are ready to take on some of technology's greatest challenges and make an impact on millions, if not billions, of users. At Google, engineers not only revolutionize search, they routinely work on massive scalability and storage solutions, large-scale applications and entirely new platforms for developers around the world. From Google Ads to Chrome, Android to YouTube, Social to Local, Google engineers are changing the world one technological achievement after another.

Responsibilities
Lead/contribute to engineering efforts from design to implementation, solving complex technical challenges around developer and engineering productivity and velocity.
Design and build advanced automated build, test, and release infrastructure.
Drive adoption of best practices in code health, testing, and maintainability.
Analyze and decompose complex software systems and collaborate with cross-functional teams to influence design for testability.
inimum Qualifications
BS degree in Computer Science, similar technical field of study or equivalent practical experience.
Software development experience in one or more general purpose programming languages.
Experience working with two or more from the following: web application development, Unix/Linux environments, mobile application development, distributed and parallel systems, machine learning, information retrieval, natural language processing, networking, developing large software systems, and/or security software development.
Working proficiency and communication skills in verbal and written English.


Preferred Qualifications
Master’s, PhD degree, further education or experience in engineering, computer science or other technical related field.
Experience with one or more general purpose programming languages including but not limited to: Java, C/C++, C#, Objective C, Python, JavaScript, or Go.
Experience developing accessible technologies.
Interest and ability to learn other coding languages as needed.

About The Job

Google aspires to be an organization that reflects the globally diverse audience that our products and technology serve. We believe that in addition to hiring the best talent, a diversity of perspectives, ideas and cultures leads to the creation of better products and services.

Google's software engineers develop the next-generation technologies that change how billions of users connect, explore, and interact with information and one another. Our products need to handle information at massive scale, and extend well beyond web search. We're looking for engineers who bring fresh ideas from all areas, including information retrieval, distributed computing, large-scale system design, networking and data storage, security, artificial intelligence, natural language processing, UI design and mobile; the list goes on and is growing every day. As a software engineer, you will work on a specific project critical to Google’s needs with opportunities to switch teams and projects as you and our fast-paced business grow and evolve. We need our engineers to be versatile, display leadership qualities and be enthusiastic to take on new problems across the full-stack as we continue to push technology forward.

Google is and always will be an engineering company. We hire people with a broad set of technical skills who are ready to take on some of technology's greatest challenges and make an impact on millions, if not billions, of users. At Google, engineers not only revolutionize search, they routinely work on massive scalability and storage solutions, large-scale applications and entirely new platforms for developers around the world. From Google Ads to Chrome, Android to YouTube, Social to Local, Google engineers are changing the world one technological achievement after another.

Responsibilities
Design, develop, test, deploy, maintain and improve software.
Manage individual project priorities, deadlines and deliverables.
Minimum Qualifications
BS degree in Computer Science, similar technical field of study or equivalent practical experience.
Software development experience in one or more general purpose programming languages.
Experience working with two or more from the following: web application development, Unix/Linux environments, mobile application development, distributed and parallel systems, machine learning, information retrieval, natural language processing, networking, developing large software systems, and/or security software development.
Working proficiency and communication skills in verbal and written English.


Preferred Qualifications
Master’s, PhD degree, further education or experience in engineering, computer science or other technical related field.
Experience with one or more general purpose programming languages including but not limited to: Java, C/C++, C#, Objective C, Python, JavaScript, or Go.
Experience developing accessible technologies.
Interest and ability to learn other coding languages as needed.

About The Job

Google aspires to be an organization that reflects the globally diverse audience that our products and technology serve. We believe that in addition to hiring the best talent, a diversity of perspectives, ideas and cultures leads to the creation of better products and services.

Google's software engineers develop the next-generation technologies that change how billions of users connect, explore, and interact with information and one another. Our products need to handle information at massive scale, and extend well beyond web search. We're looking for engineers who bring fresh ideas from all areas, including information retrieval, distributed computing, large-scale system design, networking and data storage, security, artificial intelligence, natural language processing, UI design and mobile; the list goes on and is growing every day. As a software engineer, you will work on a specific project critical to Google’s needs with opportunities to switch teams and projects as you and our fast-paced business grow and evolve. We need our engineers to be versatile, display leadership qualities and be enthusiastic to take on new problems across the full-stack as we continue to push technology forward.

Google is and always will be an engineering company. We hire people with a broad set of technical skills who are ready to take on some of technology's greatest challenges and make an impact on millions, if not billions, of users. At Google, engineers not only revolutionize search, they routinely work on massive scalability and storage solutions, large-scale applications and entirely new platforms for developers around the world. From Google Ads to Chrome, Android to YouTube, Social to Local, Google engineers are changing the world one technological achievement after another.

Responsibilities
Design, develop, test, deploy, maintain and improve software.
Manage individual project priorities, deadlines and deliverables.

In school or graduated within last 9 months? We encourage you to apply to openings on the Student Jobs site

Minimum Qualifications
BA/BS degree in Computer Science or related technical field or equivalent practical experience.
1 year of relevant work experience in software development.
Professional coding experience in C/C++, Java, Python or Go.
Experience architecting and developing large scale distributed systems. Experience in concurrency, multithreading and synchronization.


Preferred Qualifications
Experience with database internals, database language theories, database design, SQL and database programming.
Understanding of technologies such as virtualization and global infrastructure, load balancing, networking, massive data storage, Hadoop, MapReduce and security.


About The Job

Google's software engineers develop the next-generation technologies that change how billions of users connect, explore, and interact with information and one another. Our products need to handle information at massive scale, and extend well beyond web search. We're looking for engineers who bring fresh ideas from all areas, including information retrieval, distributed computing, large-scale system design, networking and data storage, security, artificial intelligence, natural language processing, UI design and mobile; the list goes on and is growing every day. As a software engineer, you will work on a specific project critical to Google’s needs with opportunities to switch teams and projects as you and our fast-paced business grow and evolve. We need our engineers to be versatile, display leadership qualities and be enthusiastic to take on new problems across the full-stack as we continue to push technology forward.

As a Software Engineer working on Google's infrastructure, you have the opportunity to work on everything from the core platform that runs the world's largest distributed network to redefining the systems that allow applications and services to provide useful information to billions of users around the globe. From our Data Center software groups to Google Cloud Platform or Gmail to YouTube, our infrastructure engineers across departments wrestle with the vast scale of a ubiquitous system, its products and services and revolutionize industry leading technologies to handle the sheer magnitude at which Google operates.

Google is and always will be an engineering company. We hire people with a broad set of technical skills who are ready to take on some of technology's greatest challenges and make an impact on millions, if not billions, of users. At Google, engineers not only revolutionize search, they routinely work on massive scalability and storage solutions, large-scale applications and entirely new platforms for developers around the world. From Google Ads to Chrome, Android to YouTube, Social to Local, Google engineers are changing the world one technological achievement after another.

Responsibilities
Build our platforms, systems and infrastructure using your strong background in distributed systems and large-scale storage systems.
Manage individual projects priorities, deadlines and deliverables with your technical expertise.
Design, develop, test, deploy, maintain, and enhance software solutions.
Minimum Qualifications
BA/BS degree in Computer Science or equivalent practical experience.
Software development experience in Objective-C or Swift using iOS or OS X frameworks.
Relevant work experience in mobile development.


Preferred Qualifications
MS degree in Computer Science, Electrical Engineering, Computer Engineering or PhD in Computer Science or related technical field.
Experience with one or more general purpose programming languages, including but not limited to: Java, C/C++, C#, Objective C, Python, JavaScript, or Go.
Experience with a11y development.
Demonstrated technical knowledge regarding iOS mobile application development.


About The Job

Google's software engineers develop the next-generation technologies that change how billions of users connect, explore, and interact with information and one another. Our products need to handle information at massive scale, and extend well beyond web search. We're looking for engineers who bring fresh ideas from all areas, including information retrieval, distributed computing, large-scale system design, networking and data storage, security, artificial intelligence, natural language processing, UI design and mobile; the list goes on and is growing every day. As a software engineer, you will work on a specific project critical to Google’s needs with opportunities to switch teams and projects as you and our fast-paced business grow and evolve. We need our engineers to be versatile, display leadership qualities and be enthusiastic to take on new problems across the full-stack as we continue to push technology forward.

As a Software Engineer, you'll utilize your deep technical knowledge of iOS mobile application development and professional experience using Objective-C and/or Swift.

Google is and always will be an engineering company. We hire people with a broad set of technical skills who are ready to take on some of technology's greatest challenges and make an impact on millions, if not billions, of users. At Google, engineers not only revolutionize search, they routinely work on massive scalability and storage solutions, large-scale applications and entirely new platforms for developers around the world. From Google Ads to Chrome, Android to YouTube, Social to Local, Google engineers are changing the world one technological achievement after another.

Responsibilities
Define, build, and ship new functionality and refactor and re-architect existing code for Google Drive for iOS in Objective-C and Swift.
Deliver new versions of Google Drive for iOS.
Push updates to the shared DriveKit framework for iOS for clients like Google Docs, Sheets, Slides, Gmail, Calendar, and more.
Improve developer velocity by removing development roadblocks, increasing testability, and simplifying architecture.

Minimum Qualifications
Bachelor's degree in Computer Science or related technical field, or equivalent practical experience.
Software development work experience with C/C++.
Experience with computer vision, imaging, or augmented reality platforms.
Experience with building machine learning solutions and leveraging specific machine learning architectures (e.g. deep learning, LSTM, convolutional networks, etc.).


Preferred Qualifications
PhD degree in computer graphics, computer vision, image processing, applied mathematics, or related technical field.
4 years of relevant work experience in software development, including C++.
Experience with one or more of the following: photogrammetry, stereo depth acquisition, geometric analysis, deformable object tracking, GPU programming, digital imaging, statistical analysis and/or machine learning methods.
Knowledge of deep learning neural networks, including TensorFlow.


About The Job

Google's software engineers develop the next-generation technologies that change how billions of users connect, explore, and interact with information and one another. Our products need to handle information at massive scale, and extend well beyond web search. We're looking for engineers who bring fresh ideas from all areas, including information retrieval, distributed computing, large-scale system design, networking and data storage, security, artificial intelligence, natural language processing, UI design and mobile; the list goes on and is growing every day. As a software engineer, you will work on a specific project critical to Google’s needs with opportunities to switch teams and projects as you and our fast-paced business grow and evolve. We need our engineers to be versatile, display leadership qualities and be enthusiastic to take on new problems across the full-stack as we continue to push technology forward.

As a Research Software Engineer, you will help push the frontier in real-time 3D human capture and rendering, with a particular emphasis on developing real-time machine learning techniques for these purposes. You will work closely with a team that combines research and engineering expertise across a range of technical areas including 3D computer vision, machine learning, image processing, and user interaction. You'll also collaborate with other groups across Google to help create ground-breaking products that will transform an industry and impact millions of users.

Responsibilities
Design and implement machine learning and engineered techniques to solve real-time problems in 3D computer vision.
Plan and execute training data acquisition for the proposed techniques.
Examine the results and provide mitigations to increase the robustness of the proposed technique.

Minimum Qualifications
Bachelor's degree in a technical discipline or equivalent practical experience.
1 year of work experience.
Experience in JavaScript, and one or more programming languages: Java, C/C++, Python or Go.
Experience with front end technologies and/or front end frameworks.


Preferred Qualifications
Experience with HTML5 and CSS3 web standards.
Knowledge of web libraries and frameworks, such as AngularJS, Polymer, Closure or Backbone.
Developed web design skills and user experience fundamentals knowledge.
Familiarity with the full web stack, including protocols and web server optimization techniques.


About The Job

Google's software engineers develop the next-generation technologies that change how billions of users connect, explore, and interact with information and one another. Our products need to handle information at massive scale, and extend well beyond web search. We're looking for engineers who bring fresh ideas from all areas, including information retrieval, distributed computing, large-scale system design, networking and data storage, security, artificial intelligence, natural language processing, UI design and mobile; the list goes on and is growing every day. As a software engineer, you will work on a specific project critical to Google’s needs with opportunities to switch teams and projects as you and our fast-paced business grow and evolve. We need our engineers to be versatile, display leadership qualities and be enthusiastic to take on new problems across the full-stack as we continue to push technology forward.

With your technical expertise you manage individual projects priorities, deadlines and deliverables. You design, develop, test, deploy, maintain, and enhance software solutions.

Google is and always will be an engineering company. We hire people with a broad set of technical skills who are ready to take on some of technology's greatest challenges and make an impact on millions, if not billions, of users. At Google, engineers not only revolutionize search, they routinely work on massive scalability and storage solutions, large-scale applications and entirely new platforms for developers around the world. From Google Ads to Chrome, Android to YouTube, Social to Local, Google engineers are changing the world one technological achievement after another.

Responsibilities
Build next-generation web applications with a focus on the client side.
Redesign UI's, implement new UI's, and pick up Java as necessary.
Minimum Qualifications
Bachelor's degree in Computer Science, related technical field, or equivalent practical experience.
Experience programming in one or more of the following: Java, C/C++, C#, Objective C, Python, JavaScript, Kotlin, Dart, and/or Go.
Experience in performance debugging of single-node systems.
Experience in experimental design, analysis, and performance tools.


Preferred Qualifications
Master's degree or PhD in Computer Science or related technical field.
Experience analyzing and tuning operating systems, compilers, networking, IO subsystems, and/or accelerators.
Knowledge and experience in debugging performance of multi-node (distributed) systems.
Understanding of experimental and statistical methods and tools for performance.


About The Job

As a Software Engineer, you will optimize the architecture, storage, algorithms, and deployment of Google workloads. You will start with open ended problems (e.g., to reduce the memory usage of a service) and deep dive into the service to root cause and fix the problem. You will play an instrumental role in driving Google’s roadmaps to deliver cost-effective infrastructure and software systems. In this role, you will contribute deep knowledge in areas including: design of experiments, data analysis and visualization, end-to-end performance analysis and debugging for single-node systems and distributed systems, and system design for performance.

Behind everything our users see online is the architecture built by the Technical Infrastructure team to keep it running. From developing and maintaining our data centers to building the next generation of Google platforms, we make Google's product portfolio possible. We're proud to be our engineers' engineers and love voiding warranties by taking things apart so we can rebuild them. We keep our networks up and running, ensuring our users have the best and fastest experience possible.

Responsibilities
Design and conduct experiments to evaluate system changes with respect to performance.
Build and use tools and instrumentation to help monitor and analyze performance.
Deep dive into performance anomalies with the intent of discovering their root cause for both single and multi-node (i.e., distributed) systems.
Design systems and components with performance in mind, considering both algorithmic and system-level criteria.
Coordinate with product engineers in all parts of the Software/Hardware stack.
In school or graduated within last 9 months? We encourage you to apply to openings on the Student Jobs site
Note: By applying to this position your application is automatically submitted to the following locations: Mountain View, CA, USA; San Francisco, CA, USA; San Bruno, CA, USA; Sunnyvale, CA, USA

Minimum Qualifications
Bachelor's degree in Computer Science, related technical field, or equivalent practical experience.
Development experience within embedded systems/firmware design and in lower-level computer systems/architecture, embedded systems, and kernel development.
Experience coding in C/C++.
Experience with Audio and Video Signal Processing and Algorithms (e.g., AV synchronization, codecs, AV/Media).


Preferred Qualifications
MS degree in Computer Science, Electrical Engineering, Computer Engineering or PhD in Computer Science or related technical field.
Experience with one or more of the following audio technologies: equalization, dynamic range compression, automatic gain control, noise suppression, acoustic echo cancellation, microphone array processing and voice activity detection.
Experience in developing and optimization algorithms running on DSP and ARM processors.


About The Job

Google's software engineers develop the next-generation technologies that change how billions of users connect, explore, and interact with information and one another. Our products need to handle information at massive scale, and extend well beyond web search. We're looking for engineers who bring fresh ideas from all areas, including information retrieval, distributed computing, large-scale system design, networking and data storage, security, artificial intelligence, natural language processing, UI design and mobile; the list goes on and is growing every day. As a software engineer, you will work on a specific project critical to Google’s needs with opportunities to switch teams and projects as you and our fast-paced business grow and evolve. We need our engineers to be versatile, display leadership qualities and be enthusiastic to take on new problems across the full-stack as we continue to push technology forward.

As an Audio and Signal Processing Software Engineer, you will have the opportunity to develop and build out our footprint in consumer hardware/software. You will design and develop fiber optic internet and data center networks, engineer and build products that contribute to the Android-Chrome ecosystem, and help develop new technology tools that can integrate easily into daily life and help transform the detection, prevention and management of disease. You will build and launch smart wearables and other related products in line with Google's ambitious and visionary objectives, and lay the low-level groundwork for moonshots across the company.

Areas of development may include BIOS, Linux kernel, audio and signal processing, device drivers, embedded firmware, performance tuning, debugging tools, tests and release management.

Google is and always will be an engineering company. We hire people with a broad set of technical skills who are ready to take on some of technology's greatest challenges and make an impact on millions, if not billions, of users. At Google, engineers not only revolutionize search, they routinely work on massive scalability and storage solutions, large-scale applications and entirely new platforms for developers around the world. From Google Ads to Chrome, Android to YouTube, Social to Local, Google engineers are changing the world one technological achievement after another.
Minimum Qualifications
Bachelor's degree in Computer Science, similar technical field of study, or equivalent practical experience.
8 years of relevant work experience in software development.
Experience in software development using a programming language (e.g., C/C++, Java, Python, JavaScript, C#, Go, Objective-C, and/or Swift).
Experience in kernel development and architecting and developing distributed systems design.


Preferred Qualifications
Master’s degree or PhD in Engineering, Computer Science, or a related technical field.
Hands on technical leadership experience leading project teams and setting technical direction.
Experience architecting and developing solutions to ambiguous problems with significant impact.
Demonstrated expertise working with one or more of the following: Infrastructure, Machine Learning, Mobile Application Development, Embedded Systems, Front End Development, Security and Privacy.
Interest and ability to learn other coding languages.


About The Job

Google's software engineers develop the next-generation technologies that change how billions of users connect, explore, and interact with information and one another. Our products need to handle information at massive scale, and extend well beyond web search. We're looking for engineers who bring fresh ideas from all areas, including information retrieval, distributed computing, large-scale system design, networking and data storage, security, artificial intelligence, natural language processing, UI design and mobile; the list goes on and is growing every day. As a software engineer, you will work on a specific project critical to Google’s needs with opportunities to switch teams and projects as you and our fast-paced business grow and evolve. We need our engineers to be versatile, display leadership qualities and be enthusiastic to take on new problems across the full-stack as we continue to push technology forward.

Google aspires to be an organization that reflects the globally diverse audience that our products and technology serve. We believe that in addition to hiring the best talent, a diversity of perspectives, ideas and cultures leads to the creation of better products and services.

Google is and always will be an engineering company. We hire people with a broad set of technical skills who are ready to take on some of technology's greatest challenges and make an impact on millions, if not billions, of users. At Google, engineers not only revolutionize search, they routinely work on massive scalability and storage solutions, large-scale applications and entirely new platforms for developers around the world. From Google Ads to Chrome, Android to YouTube, Social to Local, Google engineers are changing the world one technological achievement after another.

Responsibilities
Help build a team and cultivate innovation by driving cross-collaboration and execution of projects across multiple teams.
Lead designs of major software components, systems, and features.
Design, develop, test, deploy, maintain and improve the software.
Manage individual projects priorities, deadlines and deliverables with your technical expertise.
Mentor and train other team members on design techniques, and coding standards.
Would you like to pioneer new technologies in natural language processing, machine translation and machine learning?
As software development engineer, you will develop novel algorithms, language translations for our customers and modeling techniques to remove language as a barrier to global communication. Your work will help Amazon raise the bar on customer obsession by always communicating with our customers in their preferred language. You will be able to leverage Amazon’s heterogeneous data sources and large-scale computing resources to accelerate advances in computer generated natural language translation.

We are looking for a passionate, talented, and inventive Engineers with a strong machine learning background to join us to build industry-leading Speech and Language technology.

Position Responsibilities
Participate in the design, development, evaluation, deployment and updating of data-driven models and analytical solutions for written language applications
Research and implement novel ML and statistical approaches which add value to Amazon
Lead and Mentor junior engineers and scientists
Develop and/or apply statistical modelling methods (e.g. deep neural networks), optimizations, and other ML techniques to different applications in written language engineering

Basic Qualifications
Graduate degree (MS or PhD) in Electrical Engineering, Computer Sciences or a related discipline with specialization in natural language processing or machine learning.
Familiarity with programming languages such as C/C++, Python, Java or Perl.
Preferred Qualifications
Experience in building speech, natural language processing and/or machine learning systems.
Scientific thinking and the ability to invent, a track record of thought leadership and contributions that have advanced the field.
Solid software development experience.
Good written and spoken communication skills.
Speak multiple languages.
Experience with Generative Adversarial Networks, Naïve Bayes Modeling, Deep Learning
Are you interested in building AWS AI services that use cutting edge ML technology? Want to make a significant impact in the daily lives of AWS customers? We are a brand new team at AWS developing a new external facing service that are solving hard AI problems.

We are looking for a Software Development Engineer (SDE) with strong computer algorithms fundamentals and an interest in working in machine learning and complex engineering problems. You will work with an experienced team of scientists and engineers on an innovative AI product.

You will be someone who thrives in a fast paced start up-like environment, and passionate about solving ambiguous, challenging problems that have not been solved before.

As a SDE On The Team, You Will
Solve engineering and ML problems and will build robust and scalable solutions, learning and incorporating new technologies as appropriate.
Participate in the architecture, development, testing, deployment, and delivery of large-scale global software applications, systems, platforms, services or technologies.
Build your special skillset working at the intersection of science and engineering.
Amazon is an Equal Opportunity Employer – Minority / Women / Disability / Veteran / Gender Identity / Sexual Orientation / Age.


Basic Qualifications
BS degree or higher in Computer Science, Engineering or related field.
Experience with object oriented design of algorithms.
Highly skilled in at least one programming language like Python, C++ or Java.
Knowledge of professional software engineering practices & best practices for full software development life cycle, including coding standards, code reviews, source control management, continuous deployments, testing and operations
Knowledge of building on AWS systems.
Preferred Qualifications
Experience with distributed (multi-tiered) systems, algorithms, and databases
Understanding of core ML techniques and general knowledge of NLP.
Meets/exceeds Amazon’s leadership principles requirements for this role
Meets/exceeds Amazon’s functional/technical depth and complexity for this role

s a Software Engineer on the Alexa Artificial Intelligence Distributed Machine Learning team, you will help Alexa better-understand humans with each passing day.
Here at Alexa AI, all the models that drive Speech Recognition and Natural Language Understanding for Alexa require a massive amount of distributed computing power. Creating an efficient computational architecture that serves both experimental and production use-cases entails solving a wonderfully fun and challenging set of problems. We build scalable software to secure, provision and distribute complex workloads on massively paralleled GPU-accelerated computing clusters used by thousands of Amazon's Machine Learning scientists and engineers. This is an environment where you can pursue and expand an ML engineering career, and be at the forefront of engineering and product innovation in our industry.

What you'll be doing
Writing code most of the time (Primarily in Java and Python).
Utilizing AWS Compute, Networking, Security, Storage, and Database services such as CloudFormation, EC2, S3, EBS, Lambda, AutoScaling, and DynamoDB, and many more on a daily basis.
As a member of the team, you'll contribute to the architectural vision for a world-class, and massively scaled ML compute platform.
As an Amazon leader, owning the product areas that you are passionate about and solves major customer pain, becoming the advocate and driving the product and technology development and expansion within our ecosystem.
Growing and mentoring software engineers. Working with them to identify great projects and features that will help them grow in their careers.
Contributing with technical guidance on software design, architecture, patterns and practices.
Helping your team self-organize and create software development processes and practices that will work best for you and your teammates.
Building relationships with your customers, partner teams and the engineers on your team.
Your background
You have a number of years of experience delivering high-quality, distributed and scalable software.
You believe there are generally multiple ways to solve a technical problem, each with different trade-offs. You don't typically think in terms of the "right" or "wrong" way to do something.
You approach projects, tasks, and unknowns with curiosity, and enjoy sharing what you know and what you learn with the people around you.
You believe that a team is strongest when it is diverse and includes multiple perspectives.
You are an avid advocate for the customer. You frequently immerse yourself in the customer experience to understand how you can better serve them.

Basic Qualifications
2+ years of non-internship professional software development experience
Programming experience with at least one modern language such as Java, C++, or C# including object-oriented design
1+ years of experience contributing to the architecture and design (architecture, design patterns, reliability and scaling) of new and current systems.
Preferred Qualifications
MS in Computer Science or Engineering
Strong background in mathematics and understanding of basic linear algebra and probability
Familiarity with Machine Learning, especially deep neural networks
Familiarity with one or more Machine Learning frameworks/libraries (e.g. Kaldi, MXNet, TensorFlow)
Experience writing Python code

Come join the team behind Alexa, building the speech and language solutions behind Amazon Echo and other Amazon products and services. You can help us invent the future. As a member of our team, you will be responsible for leading the development and launch of core products around helping Alexa users discover Alexa Features. You will have significant influence on our overall strategy by helping define these product features, driving the system architecture, and spearheading best practices to enable a superior product.

We are looking for passionate Software Engineers who have experience building innovative, applications that customers love. As a member of the team you will help with design, implementation and launch of many key product features. You will have influence on defining product features, drive operational excellence, and spearhead the best practices that enable a quality product.

The ideal SDE-2 (L5) candidate is clearly passionate about delivering experiences that delight customers and creating solutions that are robust. A commitment to team work, hustle, and strong communication skills (to both business and technical partners) are absolute requirements. Creating reliable, scalable, and high performance products requires exceptional technical expertise, a sound understanding of the fundamentals of Computer Science, and practical experience building large-scale distributed systems. This person has thrived and succeeded in fast paced environment where learning new concepts quickly is a must.


Basic Qualifications
2+ years of non-internship professional software development experience
Programming experience with at least one modern language such as Java, C++, or C# including object-oriented design
1+ years of experience contributing to the architecture and design (architecture, design patterns, reliability and scaling) of new and current systems.
Bachelor's degree in computer science, computer engineering, mathematics, related technical discipline, or related industry experience
3+ years of software development experience
Experience working on an engineering team using Agile processes (Scrum, Kanban)
3+ years of experience developing on Linux/Unix platforms
3+ years of experience with Test Driven Development or writing unit tests

Preferred Qualifications

Strong, object-oriented design and coding skills (C/C++ and/or Java preferably on a UNIX or Linux platform)
Knowledge of Perl or other scripting languages a plus
Experience with distributed (multi-tiered) systems, algorithms, and relational databases
Experience with Machine Learning
Experience with NLU
Ability to effectively articulate technical challenges and solutions
Deal well with ambiguous/undefined problems; ability to think abstractly
Previous technical internship(s) preferred
Master's in Computer Science a plus

The AmazonFresh and Prime Now teams are seeking a Software Development Engineer to join our team that is focused on building mission critical software used by Amazon customers. As a developer on the team you’ll drive improvements to our technology, collaborating with sharp engineers and highly-engaged users to ship code continuously. We have many domains ranging from highly-scalable transactional backend systems, to complex optimization problems, to customer facing mobile apps, so if you love building world-class software of any type, most likely we have a place for you. We’re truly an agile shop: we work closely with users, deliver features with high frequency, can pivot on a dime when needed, and are aggressive about test coverage, refactoring and paying off technical debt. We’re looking for software development leaders who share our passion for continuously improving the customer experience, who are motivated by challenging problems in distributed systems, algorithms, and HCI and who love writing great code. If you have an entrepreneurial spirit, know how to deliver, are deeply technical, highly innovative and long for the opportunity to build pioneering solutions to challenging problems, we want to talk to you. This position is located in San Diego, California. Lots of sun, close to the beach, excellent schools, and a great group of people. Amazon.com is an Equal Opportunity-Affirmative Action Employer – Minority / Female / Disability / Veteran / Gender Identity / Sexual Orientation


Basic Qualifications
Bachelor’s Degree in Computer Science or related field
5+ years professional experience in software development
Computer Science fundamentals in object-oriented design
Computer Science fundamentals in data structures
Computer Science fundamentals in algorithm design, problem solving, and
complexity analysis
Proficiency in, at least, one modern programming language such as C, C++,
Java, Python, Scala, Ruby, C#, etc.

Preferred Qualifications
Familiarity with cloud computing
Experience building scalable, available, and low-latency systems
Experience with machine learning and feedback loops
Experience using functional programming languages
Knowledge of professional software engineering practices & best practices for the full software development life cycle, including coding standards, code reviews, source control management, build processes, testing, and operations
Ability to take a project from scoping requirements through actual launch of the project
Alexa is the groundbreaking cloud-based intelligent agent that powers Echo and other devices designed around your voice. Our mission is to push the envelope in Artificial Intelligence (AI), Natural Language Understanding (NLU), Machine Learning (ML), Dialog Management, Automatic Speech Recognition (ASR), and Audio Signal Processing, in order to provide the best-possible experience for our customers. We’re looking for a Software Development Engineer to help build industry-leading conversational technologies that customers love.

Additional Responsibilities Include

As a Software Development Engineer for the Alexa team, you will be responsible for translating business and functional requirements into concrete deliverables with the design, development, testing, and deployment of highly scalable distributed services. You will also partner with scientists and platform engineers to help invent, implement, and connect sophisticated algorithms to our cloud based engines. A successful candidate should have knowledge of research domains including AI, NLU, ML, and Dialog Management. They should also be very agile in developing flexible software with respect to scientific, experimentation methods and usage patterns.
Developing and maintaining core system features
Helping define product features, drive the system architecture, and spearhead the best practices that enable a quality product
Working with scientists and other engineers to investigate design approaches, prototype new technology, and evaluate technical feasibility
Operate in an Agile/Scrum environment to deliver high quality software against aggressive schedules s

Basic Qualifications
2+ years of non-internship professional software development experience
Programming experience with at least one modern language such as Java, C++, or C# including object-oriented design
1+ years of experience contributing to the architecture and design (architecture, design patterns, reliability and scaling) of new and current systems.
Bachelor's degree in Electrical Engineering, Computer Sciences, Mathematics, or related technical field
Knowledge of programming languages such as C/C++, Java, Perl or Python and open-source technologies (Apache, Hadoop)
Experience with OO design and common design pattern
Knowledge with data structures, algorithm design, problem solving, and complexity analysis
Experience defining system architectures and exploring technical feasibility trade-offs
Preferred Qualifications
Master's in Electrical Engineering, Computer Sciences, Mathematics, or related technical field
Experience developing cloud software services and an understanding of design for scalability, performance and reliability
Experience optimizing for short term execution while planning for long term technical capabilities
Ability to prototype and evaluate applications and interaction methodologies
Ability to produce code that is fault-tolerant, efficient, and maintainable
Academic and/or industry experience with standard AI and ML techniques, NLU, and scientific thinking
Experience working effectively with science, data processing, and software engineering teams
Ability and willingness to multi-task and learn new technologies quickly
Written and verbal technical communication skills with an ability to present complex technical information in a clear and concise manner to a variety of audiences

"Alexa, what is the price of gold?", “Alexa, who is the tallest NBA player?”, “Alexa, how long does it take to cook chicken?”

Every Alexa customer has questions, and we’re here to provide answers. We achieve this goal by building upon the deepest and most user-friendly knowledge graph on the planet. We have billions of entities, hundreds of billions of facts, and an extensible answer presentation layer. We are hiring additional software development engineers (SDEs) to grow our team.

The Role

As a member of the Answer team, you will join a diverse group of engineers with experience across the entire software stack. Our team builds natural language and visualization building blocks that power the answers that Alexa delivers to millions of customers. You will take complete ownership over feature design, prioritization, and implementation in either of these areas. Your solutions will scale across all content categories, across all languages, and across all existing devices. You will commit code several times a day and ship new features into production each week. You will interact with individuals and teams across the organization to launch and deliver delightful experiences for Alexa customers. You will launch fast and iterate quickly to build amazing features at mind-numbing speeds.


Basic Qualifications
Bachelor's degree in Computer Science, Software Engineering or a related technical discipline.
5+ years’ full-time industry experience in software design and development with engineering best practices.
Proficiency with at least one Object Oriented language (e.g. Java, C# or C++).
Experience with the full software development life cycle, including source control system, code reviews, build processes, testing, and operations.
Competency in a broad range of design approaches and architectures with the proper level of complexity.
Computer Science fundamentals in object-oriented design, data structures, algorithm design, problem solving, and complexity analysis.
Preferred Qualifications
5+ years of profession software engineering experience building scalable production application
Proficiency in SQL (MySQL) and/or NoSQL databases
Experience working with front end languages (JavaScript, CSS) in a browser environment
A love for optimizing even the fastest code
A desire to be part of a team that is building world-changing products
A passion for learning, occasionally failing, and learning once again
A natural eye for design
SQLAt Alexa's Machine Learning Data Platform, we care about safeguarding customer privacy while improving Alexa. We're hiring experienced engineers to join us in helping to make Alexa better.

As a member of the Alexa Machine Learning Data Platform team, you will be responsible for leading the development and launch of core infrastructure and platform features. You will work in a highly collaborative and supportive environment across all stages of an agile software development lifecycle, including architecture design, development, documentation, testing, and operations. Your software will be used by hundreds of thousands of people every day.

What You'll Be Doing
Writing code in Java and Python.
Utilizing AWS Compute, Networking, Security, Storage, and Database services such as EC2, S3, EBS, Lambda, AutoScaling, DynamoDB, and many more.
Designing and Implementing Big Data storage and retrieval features that delight customers.
Providing technical guidance on software design, architecture, patterns and practices.
Helping your team self-organize and create software development processes and practices that will work best for you and your teammates.
Building relationships with your customers, partner teams, and the engineers on your team.
Your Background And Who You Are
You have at least a few years of experience delivering high-quality, distributed, testable, and scalable software.
You've made mistakes in the past and have learned a lot from them. You apply these learnings regularly.
You believe there are generally multiple ways to solve a technical problem, each with different trade-offs. You don't typically think in terms of the "right" or "wrong" way to do something.
You approach projects, tasks, and unknowns with curiosity. You enjoy sharing what you know and what you learn with the people around you.
You believe that a team is strongest when it is diverse and includes multiple perspectives.
You are able to put yourself into your customer's shoes, you frequently immerse yourself in the customer experience to understand how you can serve them better.

Basic Qualifications
2+ years of non-internship professional software development experience
Programming experience with at least one modern language such as Java, C++, or C# including object-oriented design
1+ years of experience contributing to the architecture and design (architecture, design patterns, reliability and scaling) of new and current systems.
Preferred Qualifications
Excellent verbal and written communication skills
Experience developing cloud and distributed software services and an understanding of design for security, availability, and performance.
Development experience defining, developing, and maintaining REST based interfaces.
Sharp analytical abilities and proven design skills.
Strong sense of ownership, urgency, and drive.
Demonstrated leadership abilities in an engineering environment in driving operational excellence and best practices.
Ability to work well with a diverse team
Proven results and a history of project delivery
t Amazon, we care deeply about our developer community. Come be part of a team that is building the next generation developer platform for our digital content across Alexa, Twitch, Amazon Appstore, Lumberyard and many more touch points.

Our team is making “developing for Amazon” easy. Our platform creates a seamless unified experience for developers to submit digital content including Alexa skills, Apps for Amazon devices, In-app digital goods, games and plenty more. We are seeking a world-class developer who can think big and loves building cool stuff.

As a software development engineer, you’ll play a critical role in the future of how the development community interfaces with Amazon services across a huge array of devices and touch-points.

Individuals interested in this position will be building high-performance, reliable software in a complex, multi-tiered, and distributed environment. Your code will bring apps/skills/games to millions and millions of consumers. Are you ready?


Basic Qualifications
Bachelor's in Computer Science, Engineering, or a related field or equivalent experience to a Bachelor's degree based on 2 years of work experience for every 1 year of education
6+ years relevant work experience in software development
Preferred Qualifications
Knowledge of Computer Science fundamentals in object-oriented design
Knowledge of Computer Science fundamentals in data structures
Knowledge of Computer Science fundamentals in algorithm design, problem solving, and complexity analysis
Proficiency in, at least, one modern programming language such as C, C++, Java, or Perl
Clear, professional communication skills able to contribute to team discussions, knowing when to contribute, when to listen, and when to ask questions.
Ability to demonstrate proactive and continual improvement of knowledge about Amazon’s business and relevant technologies, and use this knowledge to deliver high quality, accurate software deliverables

The Team: Amazon Go is a new kind of store with no lines and no checkout—you just grab and go! Customers simply use the Amazon Go app to enter the store, take what they want from our selection of fresh, delicious meals and grocery essentials, and go!
Our checkout-free shopping experience is made possible by our Just Walk Out Technology, which automatically detects when products are taken from or returned to the shelves and keeps track of them in a virtual cart. When you’re done shopping, you can just leave the store. Shortly after, we’ll charge your Amazon account and send you a receipt. Check it out at amazon.com/go. Designed and custom-built by Amazonians, our Just Walk Out Technology uses a variety of technologies including computer vision, deep learning and sensor fusion. Innovation is part of our DNA! Our goal is to be Earths’ most customer centric company and we are just getting started. We need people who want to join an ambitious program that continues to push the state of the art in computer vision, machine learning, distributed systems and hardware design.
The Role: Everyone on the team needs to be entrepreneurial, wear many hats and work in a highly collaborative environment that’s more startup than big company. We’ll need to tackle problems that span a variety of domains: computer vision, image recognition, machine learning, real-time and distributed systems.
As a Software Development Engineer, you will help solve a variety of technical challenges and mentor other engineers. You will play an active role in translating business and functional requirements into concrete deliverables and build quick prototypes or proofs of concept in partnership with other technology leaders within the team. You will closely work with researchers on computer vision, and deep learning problems. Also, you will help invent new features, design, develop and deploy highly scalable and reliable distributed services. You will work with a variety of core languages and technologies including Java, C++, Python etc.
You should be comfortable with a degree of ambiguity that’s higher than most projects and relish the idea of solving problems that, frankly, haven’t been solved at scale before - anywhere. Along the way, we guarantee that you’ll learn a ton, have fun and make a positive impact on millions of people.

Amazon is an Equal Opportunity-Affirmative Action Employer – Minority / Female / Disability / Veteran / Gender Identity / Sexual Orientation / Age


Basic Qualifications
Bachelor's degree in computer science field
Expertise in data structures, algorithms, and complexity analysis. The ability to produce bullet-proof code that is fault-tolerant, efficient and maintainable.
Preferred Qualifications
Understanding of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) and project planning/execution skills including estimating and scheduling.
Experience optimizing for short term execution while planning for long term technical capabilities. Ability and willingness to multi-task and learn new technologies quickly.

Massive scale? Got it. Want to grow your technical skills? Got it. Customer obsessed? Right here.

The Selling Partner Promotions Team is looking for a great engineer with a proven track record of solving interesting technical problems and creating great products for end users. Are you an expert in working in a heterogeneous environment of different languages and technologies, and can bring flexibility, speed and quality to a team? Have you built highly scalable web services in cloud environments and have a deep understanding of best practices in various languages/technologies? Do you love creating things and take great personal pride in the software you implement? If yes to these questions, let's talk!!!

We are passionate about building engaging user friendly websites and highly scalable distributed systems for our customers as well as internal business users. Come join us!

Amazon is an Equal Opportunity Employer – Minority / Women / Disability / Veteran / Gender Identity / Sexual Orientation / Age


Basic Qualifications
Bachelor’s Degree in Computer Science or related field
5+ years professional experience in software development
Sought out knowledge source in: Computer Science fundamentals in object-oriented design, data structures, algorithm design, problem solving, and complexity analysis
Advanced proficiency in, at least, one modern programming language such as C, C++, Java, or Perl
Multiple experiences shipping one or more customer facing, internet scale applications: client-server programming and internet protocols should all be second nature
Preferred Qualifications
Multiple experiences at building highly scalable and complex software systems that have been successfully delivered to customers
AWS Solution Architecture Certified
Hands-on and expert knowledge of professional software engineering practices & best practices for the full software development life cycle, including coding standards, code reviews, source control management, build processes, testing, and operations
Ability to lead a project from ambiguous scoping requirements through actual launch to production
Strong distributed systems and web services design and implementation experience
Deep experience in communicating with users, other technical teams, and management to collect requirements, describe software product features, and technical designs


AmazonSmile is redefining how technology, business and philanthropy intersect and is putting the scale of Amazon to good use by creating innovative products that both engage customers and provide much needed assistance to charitable organizations worldwide. To date, over $150 million has been donated to thousands of organizations!

We’re now growing our software engineering team to expand the program and make it even easier for our customers to support their favorite charitable organization every time they shop.
As a Software Development Engineer, you’ll be working on new features and projects involving the retail website, mobile (Android and iOS), our charity registration portal (OrgCentral), Charity Lists, and our donation processing system. You’ll have opportunities to process big data and design and implement services at high scale (millions of orders), all while supporting almost a million non profits across multiple countries.

Key Qualities Needed To Be Successful
You truly care about the business results of what you build, in addition to the innovations in the technology you build.
You have a positive and optimistic personality. Setbacks motivate you to work harder.
You’d prefer to be thrown in the deep end and solve complex problems for yourself rather than have your hand held.
You adapt to change well, and aren’t particularly phased by course changes.

If that sounds like you and you meet the software engineering qualifications below, then you should apply for this position. If this isn't you but sounds like someone you know, then send this page their way.


Basic Qualifications

Our engineers are required to have these qualifications:
Bachelor’s Degree in Computer Science or related field
Proficiency in at least one modern programming language, such as C++, Java, or Python
3+ years professional experience in software development
Solid understanding of Computer Science fundamentals like object-oriented design, data structures, algorithm design, problem solving, and complexity analysis
Experience designing and implementing distributed systems

eero is looking for a highly proficient, hands-on WiFi Software Development Engineer to further contribute and enhance the connectivity efficiency and experience of our devices and clients. You will help to improve our mesh and client connectivity, design new features, and ensure that the end users have a great connectivity experience. You'll work closely with testing teams, to help discover and debug issues.

As part of eero’s mission to reinvent WiFi, you’ll be making a difference in the fabric of the modern home.

Role & Responsibilities
Enhance the mesh experiences for eero's whole home connectivity products
Take various client connectivity performance to next levels
Design and implement new roaming features
Analyze connectivity problems and come out with complete solutions
Dive deep into embedded system internals
Improve wireless drivers, firmware, hostap components
Drive decisions about testing improvements
Work with core operating system, mobile and cloud teams to deliver features

Basic Qualifications
7+ years of embedded firmware experience or relevant experience
Preferred Qualifications
Experience with Linux Kernel and driver development
Proficient C development skills
Knowledge of wireless embedded systems or consumer electronics
Experience with wireless networking hardware such as routers, switches, wireless access points
Knowledge of 802.11, 802.3, DHCP, IPv4, IPv6, Linux bridge and network stack internals
Bachelor's degree or equivalent in Computer Science, Computer or Software Engineering, Electrical Engineering or related field
Working experience with Python
Ability to work independently and within a dynamic team

Ring is looking for a talented cloud software engineer to help with the development of our backend APIs that bring our products to life.

We are looking for a passionate, hard-working and talented Cloud Software Engineer for the Ring Smart Lighting team who has experience building innovative, mission critical software features. We want to raise the bar with someone who can extend, enhance and challenge our current experience level. You will have an opportunity to make a large impact on the design, architecture, and development of consumer products.

Responsibilities
Write high quality distributed system software for large scale applications
Work with product management and cross functional teams to provide technical solutions for desired user experiences
Work with other team members to architect and design approaches
Prototype new technology and evaluate technical feasibility
Take ownership of large components
Drive best practices and engineering excellence
Work in an Agile/Scrum environment

Basic Qualifications
BS in Computer Science, Software Engineering, or similar degree, or comparable work experience
5+ years of experience developing software in Java, C++ and/or Go
5+ years of experience with MySQL or another relational DB
3+ years of experience with code versioning tools such as Git
5+ years of experience with continuous integration, automated unit testing and integration testing
5+ years of experience with Agile and various process implementations
5+ years of experience with Web architectures and services (HTTP, REST, sockets, JSON, multi-threading, etc.)
Preferred Qualifications
Experience building production applications at scale (think millions of requests per day)
Experience with Spring, Hibernate and other Java frameworks
Experience designing and developing large-scale, distributed software applications, tools, systems and services
Familiarity with AWS and have built apps leveraging its offerings (S3, SNS/SQS, DynamoDB, EC2, Kinesis, Cloud Formations, etc.)
Experience with Docker
The Diagnostics, Eligibility and Transparency(DELTA) team owns the sole charter across Amazon WW Advertising to be the single source for product eligibility information within Sponsored Ads and improve the transparency of Ad performance issues through diagnostic tools for both Advertisers and Internal users. To this end we are currently engaged in the process of architecting building and rolling out key mission critical software solutions to Amazon’s Advertising product stack which will make it seamless for millions of Advertisers to access vital information impacting the performance of their digital Ads across the entire foot print of Amazon digital properties. We are currently recruiting experienced Software Engineers who enjoy solving technical challenges at massive scale, simplifying and eliminating complexity as well as demonstrate a high sense of ownership and the ability to drive solutions from inception to delivery.

We have a strong culture of innovation, solving problems in creative ways and our track record of accomplishment’s speaks for itself. Over the past 2 years we have successfully
Launched the Ads Eligibility suite of services which compute and surface real time information on issues impacting the serving and performance of millions of Ads on Amazon’s retail platform.
Architecting and building Contribution Profit(CP) suite of Eligibility services to perform complex analysis of all ASIN’s in the entire Amazon catalog to determine profitability thresholds as part of Advertising.
You will be joining a high-performing team at the core of the Amazon Ad’s ecosystem. You will be responsible for the entire development lifecycle, from feature ideation to deployment to operational excellence. We will be counting on you to have strong technical skills - you should be able to design and build high-availability, low-latency distributed systems that will service millions of users.


Basic Qualifications
Programming experience with at least one modern language such as Java, C++, or C# including object-oriented design
6 months+ of professional software development and experience.
Programming experience with at least one modern language such as Java, C++ or C# including Object-Oriented design.
6months + years of experience contributing to the architecture and design of new and current systems.
Preferred Qualifications
Exposure to programming in Java.
Knowledge of REST and J2EE.
Knowledge of Service Oriented Architecture(SOA)
AWS basic knowledge
Knowledge of best software and engineering practices for full SDLC.
Strong communication skills.

Prime Video is a premium entertainment service that offers customers the greatest choices in what to watch, and how to watch it. Prime Video delivers movies and TV shows instantly to TVs, tablets, game consoles and PCs worldwide. This is a young and evolving business within Amazon where creativity and drive can have a lasting impact on the way video is enjoyed worldwide. You will be encouraged to see the big picture, be creative, and positively impact millions of customers. We’re building the future of TV—yes, it’s challenging, but it’s also a lot of fun.

The Alchemist team's mission is to ensure Prime Video is the first choice for anyone to find, discover, and engage with any Movie, TV Show, or other published content on Prime Video. Within this space, the Alchemist team delivers the data to power customer experiences. Our systems are used by a variety of devices with different capabilities—from 2010 smart TVs to the latest Fire TV. Our design must support a lot of flexibility across clients while still standardizing common functionality. The central nature of this team means high visibility, and plenty of opportunities to grow and learn. As a member of the Alchemist team you will have the opportunity to collaborate with senior engineers from client and services teams, understanding and anticipating their needs from our platforms, and influencing complex, multifaceted, cross-system designs.

The team is seeking a talented and passionate Software Development Engineer to join our team. A successful candidate will have a strong technical ability, great communication skills, a motivation to achieve results in a fast-paced environment, high creativity, great analytical reasoning skills, and, of course, a passion for TV and movies.


Basic Qualifications
2+ years of non-internship professional software development experience
Programming experience with at least one modern language such as Java, C++, or C# including object-oriented design
1+ years of experience contributing to the architecture and design (architecture, design patterns, reliability and scaling) of new and current systems.
Bachelor's Degree in Computer Science or related field
Preferred Qualifications
Post-graduate degree in Computer Science: Master’s or Ph.D.
4+ years of full life cycle software engineering skills within a web services environment.
Experience working with or on mobile applications.
Experience leading and mentoring other software development engineers.
Experience with distributed systems.
Experience on high throughput services.
Mastery of the tools of the trade, including continuous delivery, system operations, monitoring, and web services.
Meets/exceeds Amazon’s leadership principles requirements for this role
Meets/exceeds Amazon’s functional/technical depth and complexity for this role

The DCS Traffic Shaping and Caching Team is looking for a Software Development Engineer with a keen interest in solving complex problems that helps Amazon to maximize availability, ensure resilience, and provide a smooth and friction free customer experience. We're the team behind products such as Gizmo, ILS, Coral Throttle, Cachemere, and Memcached. Our solutions help protect against the negative impacts of high traffic velocity, congestion, and overload and is used across all of Amazon. Our host- and fleet-level control systems and throttling solutions allow Amazon services to apply rate-limiting based on configurable rules and priorities, while our caching solutions help to preserve availability, reduce latency, and ease load on backend services.

Our roadmap is designed to revolutionize our space by taking a fresh look at the problem space, design modern solutions to solve modern problems at Amazon scale, and build centers of excellence that drive our technology and best practices across the company.


Basic Qualifications
Bachelor’s Degree in Computer Science or related field
Equivalent experience to a Bachelor's degree based on 3 years’ experience for every 1 year of education
Computer Science fundamentals in object-oriented design
Computer Science fundamentals in data structures
Computer Science fundamentals in algorithm design, problem solving, and complexity analysis
Knowledge of, at least, one modern programming language such as C, C++, C#, Java, or Perl
Preferred Qualifications
A good engineer will demonstrate that they can proactively and continually improve their level of knowledge about Amazon’s business and relevant technologies, and use this knowledge to deliver high quality, accurate software deliverables.
Clear, professional communication skills able to contribute to team discussions, knowing when to contribute, when to listen, and when to ask questions.
Experience developing in a Linux environment
Area of study and/or specific experience in control theory, control system design, and queueing theory are a big plus.
The Builder Tools organization within Amazon Web Services (AWS) at Amazon is looking for talented engineers to join the Apollo (AMZN’s distributed deployment systems) team. 
Our team owns the software and systems that help Amazon’s massive developer community build the cutting edge services and technology that Amazon is known for. Our systems deliver the technology that powers fully-automated deployments and dynamic fleet scaling for some of the world’s largest services. Through a fully-automated continuous deployment workflow, Amazon engineers can bring code changes and new features to the customer, or dynamically shape the size of their fleet, all because of the magic we provide. Apollo make it possible for every developer at Amazon to rapidly change their running applications without ever having to take an outage. Ever wondered how the Amazon web site, Alexa, Prime Video, and hundreds of other services are available 24 hours a day, across the world, yet are continually evolving? Apollo is the answer. Apollo is at the core how engineers work at Amazon. Every engineer uses it every day. In Apollo, everything we do goes into production and is instantly used by tens of thousands of other engineers.

What we do makes a difference, and we're not done yet! We are looking for developers who are passionate about making managing applications in the cloud work for everyone. We have so much more we want to do.

If you have what we’re looking for, come join a strong team in a highly-visible organization. You will have a significant impact on Amazon's massively distributed software development environment and help us to build the best continuous deployment and fleet management system in the world.

Help us to write the next generation of systems that controls the software on millions of servers, for tens of thousands of applications, while delivering on the promise of elastic capacity. We want to make it as easy as possible for application owners to create rapid change, and we need developers who are excited to make managing applications in the cloud work for everyone.


Basic Qualifications
Programming experience with at least one modern language such as Java, C++, or C# including object-oriented design
Bachelor’s Degree in Computer Science or related field
2 years of commercial experience
Preferred Qualifications
Experience building complex software systems that have been successfully delivered to customers
Knowledge of professional software engineering practices & best practices for the full software development life cycle, including coding standards, code reviews, source control management, build processes, testing, and operations
Ability to take a project from scoping requirements through actual launch of the project
Experience in communicating with users, other technical teams, and management to collect requirements, describe software product features, and technical designs.

Prime Video is changing the traditional television and movie industry with a vast library of high-quality media and reliable digital delivery. Our services are engineered for high availability, maximum reach, and cost savings that we can pass on to customers. We enable the world to watch video instantly, across hundreds of devices, whether on the road or from the comfort of a living room sofa. Today, we deliver movies and TV shows to computers, gaming consoles, tablets, smart phones, and smart TVs. We operate in more than 200 countries, and we aspire to grow -- a lot.

Want to join a team working on a high impact project with direct and significant impact on the Prime Video business? Want to join a high visibility project still in the beginning phases with a lot of opportunities to innovate, design and implement solutions that will have direct impact on increasing customer selection, reduce operation costs which in turn translates to lower prices for the Amazon customer? On the Offers team, we are writing highly scalable distributed services from the ground up to manage partner rights granted to Amazon and automate the creation of offers. Offers represent the different consumption options Amazon customer have when browsing video content. For example, if a movie detail page has an option to purchase the movie, there is an offer generated from a right given the customer to purchase the content. We work closely with many teams in the Prime Video supply chain as the Offers space affects the complete video supply chain.

We are looking for talented software development engineers who are eager to shine by designing and developing world-class solutions. The engineering candidate wants to have ownership of a domain to deliver meaning results to the customers. As an organization, we work hard to not only deliver results but invest in each team member’s career and skill sets goals. Additionally, we encourage the use of new technologies when the technology provides a clear advantage.

Successful candidates for this position will have a strong background in designing and developing world-class micro services in Java, C++, C#, Python, NodeJS or Ruby. Equally important to these specific candidate skills are excellent written and verbal communication skills both with the team and external teams, the ability to multi-task, the ability to translate business requirements to engineering requirements, the ability adapt quickly to new environments and using creativity to solve difficult problems in a world-class engineering team.

Come be a part of green field initiative to create an impact in a fast growing area within Amazon.


Basic Qualifications
2+ years of non-internship professional software development experience
Programming experience with at least one modern language such as Java, C++, or C# including object-oriented design
1+ years of experience contributing to the architecture and design (architecture, design patterns, reliability and scaling) of new and current systems.
Bachelor’s degree in computer science or a related field
Preferred Qualifications
At least three year of experience writing production code to solve complex problems
Deep understanding of computer science fundamentals, including algorithms, complexity analysis, data structures, problem solving, and object-oriented analysis and design
Proficiency in Java, C, C++, C#, NodeJS, Ruby, or Python
Working knowledge of databases, service-oriented architectures, and highly scalable distributed systems
Excellent written and verbal communication
Relentless customer focus
Excellent analytical skills
Experience with Amazon Web Services
Experience with mission critical, 24x7 systems
Experience implementing and consuming large scale web services
Masters degree in Computer Science or equivalent

Ever wondered how Amazon offers the earth’s biggest selection and still manages to offer lower prices every day to our customers? The Contra CoGS team creates the systems to drive costs lower. Given the rapid growth of our business we apply cutting edge technology to complex business problems. We are seeking SDEs who want to stretch both their technical abilities and their business awareness while solving such problems. These projects have huge visibility and impact as those are tied very closely to Amazon’s profitability and growth.

Innovation
Are you seeking an environment where you can drive innovation? Do you want to apply machine learning to solve real world problems? Do you want to pave the future of Amazon Retail, enhancing how we do business?

Opportunity
To meet these challenges, Amazon's Contra CoGS team is looking for passionate, talented, and super-smart software engineers. We are looking for people who innovate, love solving hard problems, and never take 'no' for an answer. Our engineers are top-notch software developers in the industry, who work hard, have fun, and make history.


Basic Qualifications
Bachelor’s Degree in Computer Science or related field
Equivalent experience to a Bachelor's degree based on 3 years of work experience for every 1 year of education
Computer Science fundamentals in object-oriented design
Computer Science fundamentals in data structures
Computer Science fundamentals in algorithm design, problem solving, and complexity analysis
Proficiency in, at least, one modern programming language such as Java, C, C++, C#, or Perl
Preferred Qualifications
Knowledge of professional software engineering practices & best practices for the full software development life cycle, including coding standards, code reviews, source control management, build processes, testing, and operations
Knowledge of database systems and SQL
Ability to take a project from scoping requirements through actual launch of the project
Experience with machine learning is a plus.
Experience in communicating with users, other technical teams, and senior management to collect requirements, describe software product features, technical de

This role will sit in our new headquarters in Northern Virginia, where Amazon will invest $2.5 billion dollars, occupy 4 million square feet of energy efficient office space, and create at least 25,000 new full-time jobs. Our employees and the neighboring community will also benefit from the associated investments from the Commonwealth including infrastructure updates, public transportation improvements, and new access to Reagan National Airport.
By working together on behalf of our customers, we are building the future one innovative product, service, and idea at a time. Are you ready to embrace the challenge? Come build the future with us.

Alexa is seeking a Software Development Engineer to deliver new and exciting customer features in the mobile app space (iOS and Android). In this role you will have the opportunity to think big, work with a team of talented engineers, and build new features from scratch.

The ideal candidate is passionate about Alexa and improving the lives of customers through great technology. You have a track record of successfully delivering new and technically challenging products. You are entrepreneurial, comfortable operating with ambiguity and willing to develop quick proof of concepts. You are excited about creating reliable, scalable, and high-performance products with your sound understanding of the fundamentals of Computer Science, and practical experience building customer-facing features for mobile applications. You have experience collaborating with other talented engineers to bring great ideas to life.

This position is located in Arlington, Virginia (HQ2).


Basic Qualifications
A Bachelor’s Degree in Computer Science or related field, or equivalent work experience
2+ years object-oriented experience with one of: Java (preferred), C#, C++, or similar
1+ years of experience building mobile applications for iOS or Android
1+ Experience enabling robust systems integrations with APIs and web services
Preferred Qualifications
Hands on experience developing with Amazon Web Services
Experience developing Alexa speech services
Full stack experience (web, mobile, services, APIs)
A history of mentoring other software developers to maintain architectural vision and software quality
Amazon is an Equal Opportunity-Affirmative Action Employer – Minority / Female / Disability / Veteran / Gender Identity / Sexual Orientation

The Amazon India Consumables team is looking for talented engineers for building new technology & businesses that will drive the next wave of growth for Amazon.in & Emerging Markets. We started recently on a new confidential project with multi billion dollars opportunity. We are going to build the entire ecosystem of services needed for this project from the scratch using latest technologies.
Our team has strong tenured SDEs from whom you can learn at a much faster pace. We believe in delivering early versions of exciting software quickly and iteratively, to get customer feedback, and use the feedback to make data driven and agile decisions. We rely on our software engineers leveraging their own expertise and perspectives to drive quality into our product.

We love to work with smart people who have a strong sense of ownership and strong engineering mindset. You will be motivated to tackle ambiguous situations with new technologies to rapidly produce prototypes. You outline paths from prototype to product. You are a technical leader for the team. You contribute to the professional development of colleagues, improving their technical knowledge and the engineering practices in the team.You will be working on a wide range of technologies, including AWS EC2, SQS/SNS, DynamoDB Amazon WW platforms, ElastcicSearch, Big Data, Machine Learning, Android, iOS, Amazon Horizonte, JavaScript, React JS to create unique experiences for India retail customers and other emerging markets. You will get the opportunity to code on almost all key pages on retail website building features and improving business metrics. You will also contribute to reducing latency for customers by reducing the bytes on the wire and adapting the UX based on network bandwidth. You will be part of a team that obsesses about the performance of our customer’s experience and enjoy the flexibility to pursue what makes sense. Come enjoy an exploratory and research oriented team working in a fast paced environment, who are always eager to take on big challenges.

Responsibilities
Be heavily involved with design and product teams to understand needs, propose features, create early prototypes and transform them into exciting end consumer features.
Architect new end-to-end features that bring shopping innovations.
Write clean, maintainable code and perform peer code-reviews.
Deep-dive into client or server systems to optimize for performance, maintainability, scalability, extensibility as needed.
Propose innovative tools, frameworks, automations and processes.
Mentor team members to promote engineering excellence

Basic Qualifications
Bachelor's degree in Computer Science, Software Engineering or a related technical discipline
1-2 years’ full-time experience in software design and development.
Proficiency with at least one Object Oriented language (e.g. Java, Python).
Computer Science fundamentals in object-oriented design, data structures, algorithm design, problem solving, and complexity analysis.
A strong track record of project delivery for large, cross-functional projects
Experience building complex software systems that have been successfully delivered to customers
Experience with building high-performance, highly-available and scalable distributed systems.
A willingness to dive deep, experiment rapidly and get things done
Preferred Qualifications
MS in Computer Science or equivalent industry experience
Deep knowledge of Distributed SOA Architecture, Relational DB knowledge, ElasticSearch, DynamoDB, and various AWS technologies.
Experience of successfully mentoring junior SDEs.
High attention to detail and proven ability to manage multiple, competing priorities simultaneously.
Ability to work in a fast-paced environment where continuous innovation is desired.
History of teamwork and willingness to roll up one’s sleeves to get the job done.

We are constantly making Alexa the best voice assistant in the world. The Alexa Skills team in Orange County is hiring talented software engineers to help build experiences for suggesting the best skills within various contexts. Join a team doing innovative work, make a direct impact to customers, show measurable success, and build with the latest natural language processing systems.

If You Are Holding Out For An Opportunity To
Make a huge impact as an individual
Be part of a team of smart and passionate professionals who will challenge you to grow every day
Solve difficult challenges using your expertise in coding elegant and practical solutions
Create applications at a massive scale used by millions of people
Work with machine learning systems to deliver real experiences, not just research
And you are experienced with…
Writing highly efficient, testable, quality code written with Java, C++, or C# (or another excellent OO language)
Application scaling, resiliency, availability, and failover
Researching implementations to find the best possible experience for a customer
Taking ownership and doing whatever it takes to get the job done
And you constantly look for opportunities to…
Innovate, simplify, reduce waste, and increase efficiencies
Use data to make decisions and validate assumptions
Automate processes otherwise performed by humans
Learn from others and help grow those around you
then we would love to chat!

Basic Qualifications
2+ years of non-internship professional software development experience
Programming experience with at least one modern language such as Java, C++, or C# including object-oriented design
1+ years of experience contributing to the architecture and design (architecture, design patterns, reliability and scaling) of new and current systems.
Preferred Qualifications
Problem solving, communication, presentation and interpersonal skills
The ability to work quickly toward tight deadlines, and make smart tradeoffs between speed, accuracy, and maintainability.
Communicating with users, other technical teams, and management to collect requirements, describe software product features, technical designs, and product strategy
Working with cloud architecture and web services
Experience leading development of complex software systems that have been successfully delivered
Knowledge of software engineering best practices for the full software development life cycle, including Agile methodologies, coding standards, code reviews, source control management, build processes, testing, and operations
Experience mentoring other software engineers
Experience working in Unix/Linux
Amazon.com is an Equal Opportunity-Affirmative Action Employer – Minority / Women / Disability / Veteran / Gender Identity / 
Facebook's mission is to give people the power to build community and bring the world closer together. Through our family of apps and services, we're building a different kind of company that connects billions of people around the world, gives them ways to share what matters most to them, and helps bring people closer together. Whether we're creating new products or helping a small business expand its reach, people at Facebook are builders at heart. Our global teams are constantly iterating, solving problems, and working together to empower people around the world to build community and connect in meaningful ways. Together, we can help people build stronger communities - we're just getting started.

Facebook is seeking an experienced Software Engineer to join the Software Engineering (Infrastructure) team. The Software Engineering (Infrastructure) team builds large distributed components that run Facebook. Our code serves millions of requests per second and it does so with sub-second latency and in a fault tolerant manner. We handle everything from Facebook scale data storage, to synchronization and coordination of large server clusters, to providing a runtime environment for front end Facebook code. We are looking for candidates who share a passion for tackling complexity and building platforms that can scale through multiple orders of magnitude.

Responsibilities
Design core, backend software components
Code using primarily C/C++, Java, PHP and Hack
Interface with other teams to incorporate their innovations and vice versa
Conduct design and code reviews
Analyze and improve efficiency, scalability, and stability of various system resources
Minimum Qualification
5+ years coding experience in either C, C++, Java, C# or other relevant coding languages
5+ years relevant experience building large-scale infrastructure applications

Preferred Qualification
B.S. Computer Science or related technical field
Experience with operating system internals, filesystems, programming language design, compilers

We are the teams who create all of Facebook's products used by billions of people around the world. Want to build new features and improve existing products like Messenger, Video, Groups, News Feed, Search and more? Want to solve unique, large scale, highly complex technical problems? Facebook is seeking experienced full-stack software engineers to join our product teams. You can help build the next-generation of products that help us connect the next billion people, create new features that have billions of interactions per day and be a part of a team that’s working to help people connect with each other around the globe. Join us!

Responsibilities
Full stack web/mobile application development with a variety of languages including but not limited to PHP, JavaScript, HTML, etc.
Create consumer products and features using internal programming language Hack
Implement web or mobile interfaces using XHTML, CSS, and JavaScript
Work closely with our PM and design teams to define feature specifications and build the next generation of products leveraging frameworks such as React & React Native
Work closely with operations and infrastructure to build and scale back-end services
Build report interfaces and data feeds
Minimum Qualification
5+ years of programming experience
5+ years relevant experience building large-scale applications

Preferred Qualification
B.S. or M.S. Computer Science or related field
Experience with PHP and C++

Facebook is seeking an experienced Software Engineer to join the Database Engineering team, whose mission is to engineer the technology storing Facebook's planet-scale user data. We provide manageable, reliable, high QoS database software and services ideal for a wide spectrum of workloads and storage devices, easily accessible from all Facebook products and programming languages. For example, RocksDB has become the de-facto Facebook standard key-value storage engine optimized for flash. Since we open-sourced it, a vibrant community has grown around it. It is used in production at Netflix, Microsoft, Yahoo, Pinterest, Airbnb, and several startups such as CockroachDB and Confluent. We are also leveraging RocksDB in MySQL, the main relational database technology at Facebook. We have converted RocksDB into a pluggable storage engine for MySQL, known as the open-source project MyRocks. Today, the entire Facebook social graph is stored in MyRocks allowing us great savings in terms of storage space and SSD lifetime for the largest MySQL backend on the planet. The database industry took notice and both MariaDB and Percona are actively working at integrating and supporting this novel write-optimized database technology in their corresponding server offering.To support the next 2-orders-of-magnitude growth in data size and QPS, Core Data is embarking on evolving MySQL and other internal technologies into the next-generation database system. Facebook's unique model of data allows us to dynamically copy or move data between Facebook's OLTP, cache, and search engines while our Social ORM enables federated queries across these structured data stores. Further, our rapidly expanding set of applications requires both vertical and horizontal scaling of database technologies. Unconstrained by the requirements of commercial enterprise software, we have numerous challenges like cost effective multi-region replication, data locality, large virtual databases, parallel query, query optimization, and disaggregated storage.We are looking for candidates who share a passion for tackling complexity and building platforms that can scale through multiple orders of magnitude and enable Facebook databases to be fast and high quality.

Responsibilities
Design core software components for database systems
Code using primarily in C++
Interface with other teams to collaborate in transforming the landscape
Conduct design and code reviews
Analyze and improve efficiency, scalability, and stability of various system resources
Minimum Qualification
5+ years software engineering experience or coding experience in C, C++, or Java
2+ years experience building database software
B.S. Computer Science or related technical field

Preferred Qualification
Experience working directly with database systems at scale
M.S. or PhD in Computer Science or related technical field

We are the teams who create all of Facebook's products used by billions of people around the world. Want to build new features and improve existing products like Messenger, Video, Groups, News Feed, Search and more? Want to solve unique, large scale, highly complex technical problems? Facebook is seeking experienced full-stack software engineers to join our product teams. You can help build the next-generation of products that help us connect the next billion people, create new features that have billions of interactions per day and be a part of a team that’s working to help people connect with each other around the globe. Join us!

Responsibilities
Full stack web/mobile application development with a variety of languages including but not limited to PHP, JavaScript, HTML, etc.
Create consumer products and features using internal programming language Hack
Implement web or mobile interfaces using XHTML, CSS, and JavaScript
Work closely with our PM and design teams to define feature specifications and build the next generation of products leveraging frameworks such as React & React Native
Work closely with operations and infrastructure to build and scale back-end services
Build report interfaces and data feeds
Minimum Qualification
5+ years of programming experience
5+ years relevant experience building large-scale applications

Preferred Qualification
B.S. or M.S. Computer Science or related field
Experience with PHP and C++

Facebook is seeking an experienced Software Engineer to join the Software Engineering (Infrastructure) team. The Software Engineering (Infrastructure) team builds large distributed components that run Facebook. Our code serves millions of requests per second and it does so with sub-second latency and in a fault tolerant manner. We handle everything from Facebook scale data storage, to synchronization and coordination of large server clusters, to providing a runtime environment for front end Facebook code. We are looking for candidates who share a passion for tackling complexity and building platforms that can scale through multiple orders of magnitude.

Responsibilities
Design core, backend software components
Code using primarily C/C++, Java, PHP and Hack
Interface with other teams to incorporate their innovations and vice versa
Conduct design and code reviews
Analyze and improve efficiency, scalability, and stability of various system resources
Minimum Qualification
5+ years coding experience in either C, C++, Java, C# or other relevant coding languages
5+ years relevant experience building large-scale infrastructure applications
esponsibilities
Full stack web/mobile application development with a variety of languages including but not limited to PHP, JavaScript, HTML, etc.
Create consumer products and features using internal programming language Hack
Implement web or mobile interfaces using XHTML, CSS, and JavaScript
Work closely with our PM and design teams to define feature specifications and build the next generation of products leveraging frameworks such as React & React Native
Work closely with operations and infrastructure to build and scale back-end services
Build report interfaces and data feeds
Minimum Qualification
5+ years of programming experience
5+ years of experience with relational databases and SQL
5+ years of experience with web technologies: JavaScript, XHTML, CSS

Preferred Qualification
B.S. or M.S. Computer Science or related field
Experience with PHP and C++
ome invent the future. At Facebook Reality Labs, software development is vital to turbocharging our scientific explorations and generating viable paths to the consumer products people will use for decades to come — products that will literally give people super powers. If you're a C/C++ software engineering expert with deep knowledge of real-time systems, with a love for solving novel problems from first principles, and an aptitude for optimization, you'll thrive in our collaborative environment. Join a world-class team of pioneers experimenting with breakthrough interaction technology, including virtual humans, from capture to reproduction. Partner with expert research scientists, mechanical engineers, electrical engineers and other brilliant software minds to build cutting-edge prototypes and create the technology that makes AR/VR universal. At the Pittsburgh lab, we aspire to a vision of social VR and AR, where people are able to interact with each other across distances in a way that is indistinguishable from in-person interactions. We're just getting started. You can help us make this dream a reality.

Responsibilities
Analyze, evaluate, design, develop, integrate, debug and test real-time AR and VR software for realistic telepresence
Help design and build a next generation user interaction software platform for AR/VR
Work side by side with research scientists to enable an array of user studies that evaluate the perceptual effects of various AR/VR interactions
Collaborate in a team environment across multiple scientific and engineering disciplines, making the architectural trade-offs required to rapidly deliver software solutions
Write clean readable code, debug complex problems that span systems, prioritize ruthlessly and get things done with a high level of efficiency
Learn constantly, educate others, dive into new areas with unfamiliar technologies, and embrace the ambiguity of AR/VR problem solving
Minimum Qualification
3+ years experience with modern C++ (14 and above)
Demonstrated architecture and design experience
Experience creating or extending real-time 3D engine systems such as graphics rendering, audio, physics, networking or animation
Track record of going from prototype to production ready code
Experience working independently and in a cross-functional environment

Preferred Qualification
5+ years experience with modern C++ (14 and above)
Experience evaluating sensor input and performing sensor fusion
Experience with computer vision
Experience with machine learning
Experience with applied linear algebra and 3D geometry
Experience developing AR/VR applications
Experience with real-time physics simulations
Experience with novel input systems

Are you excited to be part of the VR revolution and work on cutting edge consumer devices and services? Are you passionate about security and have a proven security track record? The Security Software Engineer will work on the Oculus Security Engineering team designing, building, and supporting the infrastructure and services that allow Oculus to move fast, securely and at scale. The ideal candidate will share our passion for engineering solutions to complex security problems, while minimizing employee friction and maximizing productivity.

Responsibilities
Design and implement systems that enhance the security of Oculus products and infrastructure
Design and implement abuse detection systems
Conduct design and code reviews
Evaluate engineering responses to security threats and implement mitigations
Provide security guidance to new projects and initiatives
Code in PHP, C/C++, Java, and Python
Minimum Qualification
3+ years of software development experience
BS degree in Computer Science or related field
Experience applying fundamental security concepts to systems
Experience with either device security concepts or cloud security concepts

Preferred Qualification
5+ years of software development experience
3+ years of industry experience developing and implementing security features and solutions
Experience advocating for technical security solutions across functional domains
Experience designing and deploying public key infrastructure, authorization systems, or key management systems

Want to build new features and improve existing products that more than a billion people around the world use? Are you interested in working on highly impactful technical challenges to help the world be more open and connected? Want to solve unique, large-scale, highly complex technical problems? Our development cycle is extremely fast, and we've built tools to keep it that way. It's common to write code and have it running live on the site just hours later. We push code to the site continuously and have small teams that build products that are touched by millions of people around the world. If you work for us, you will be able to make an impact immediately.

Facebook is seeking Software Engineers to join our engineering team. You can help build the next-generation of systems behind Facebook's products, create web applications that reach millions of people, build high volume servers and be a part of a team that’s working to help people connect with each other around the globe.

This position is full-time and there are minimal travel requirements.

Responsibilities
Code high-volume software using primarily C++ and Java
Create web applications using primarily PHP
Implement web interfaces using XHTML, CSS, and JavaScript
Build report interfaces and data feeds
Minimum Qualification
1 or more years of experience with perl, java, php, python, or c++
Must obtain work authorization in country of employment at the time of hire, and maintain ongoing work authorization during employment

Preferred Qualification
Demonstrated software engineering experience from previous internship, work experience, coding competitions, or publications
Currently has, or is in the process of obtaining, a Bachelors or Masters degree in Computer Science or a related field
Facebook is accessed from an increasing number of mobile devices with extremely different performance characteristics. Despite a general trend towards faster devices over time, hardware improvements alone cannot be relied upon to improve the performance of our apps. Efficient use of device resources is key and scaling that to the wide variety of mobile devices is challenging.
The Infrastructure and Interfaces team owns performance of the core Facebook iOS and Android app. We have deep knowledge of mobile OS platforms and are experts at efficient use of device resources to enable our app to run in resource constrained environments. We own high-visibility performance metrics such as app cold start, install size, disk footprint, memory footprint, battery utilization, and more. These have a large and direct impact on over 2 billion Facebook users and is key to enabling the next billion people to access Facebook.
Our team is growing and we are looking for performance-minded engineers, who are passionate about building performant apps. The ideal candidate is comfortable digging into complex systems, identifying optimizations, and working with different feature teams to develop solutions. You will influence the development of performance tools for investigation, regression tracking, and metrics reporting and own performance optimization efforts. These solutions often span multiple layers of the app and require creative, unconventional thinking. As part of a world-class engineering team, you will apply performance best-practices from across the industry to a popular mobile platform.

Responsibilities
Build world-class telemetry infrastructure
Automate performance measurement and analysis
Optimize CPU, memory, disk, and battery usage in the Facebook app
Develop high-performance developer frameworks
Own high-visibility performance metrics
Mentor engineers on performance best practices
Minimum Qualification
Bachelors or Masters degree in Computer Science, Electronics, Electrical, or related field
5+ years of industry experience shipping production software
Experience building client software for resource constrained devices
Knowledge of systems architecture and performance tradeoffs
Experience in any of C/C++, Objective C, Java, C# programming languages


We are seeking Software Engineers experienced in abuse detection to help keep two billion people on Facebook and Instagram safe from negative experiences in a highly adversarial environment. We are looking for someone who loves reimagining what's possible when it comes to detecting and disrupting attackers, analyzing data to uncover patterns of abuse and building software to realize those ideas to make the internet a safer place for all. The ideal candidate will have industry experience working and building scalable measurement and detection systems on a range of problems that keep spam, fraud, deception, and abuse at bay, and are resistant to adversarial iterations. You will bring your passion and experience to designing novel anti-abuse measures and deploying them across our products.

Responsibilities
Develop situational awareness in a highly adversarial environment and keep Facebook's anti-abuse capabilities ahead of our attackers.
Build highly scalable classifiers and tools leveraging machine learning and rule-based models.
Analyze the data to uncover latest attacker techniques and apply solutions to detect them holistically and stop them proactively.
Take a leadership role in driving anti-abuse initiatives across the Product teams.
Collaborate with Facebook's leading Machine Learning & Artificial Intelligence teams and apply their innovations to fighting abuse.
Minimum Qualification
B.S. or M.S. in Computer Science or related field, or equivalent experience.
3+ years of engineering experience in one or more of the following areas: abuse, spam, payments fraud, trust & safety.
Experience performing data analysis and translating the results into business recommendations.
Experience with programming and/or scripting languages such Haskell, Java, C++, Perl, Python, PHP.

Preferred Qualification
Experience contributing to the security community (open source, academic research, industry research, blogs, presentations, etc.).
Ph.D. degree in Computer Science or related quantitative field.
Experience working with large datasets, using tools such as Hadoop/Hive/HBase/Pig or MapReduce/Sawzall/Bigtable.
Experience with anomaly detection, bot detection, machine learning, pattern recognition and/or data mining.

Facebook is seeking talented full-stack Software Engineers who would like an opportunity to join our one-year Rotational Engineering Program, helping us build applications & systems that will scale the company and make the world more open and connected. The Program is designed to offer experienced engineers a one-year rotation through different Facebook engineering departments to develop engineering skills and gain meaningful experience for the rest of their career. At the end of the term, successful participants will be invited to apply for a full-time position at the company. Facebook is committed to increasing the diversity of representation among our Computer Scientists and Software Engineers. We build products to connect the world, and this means we need teams that understand and reflect a broad range of experiences, backgrounds, identities, abilities and many other characteristics. The rotational engineering program is open to all qualified candidates. We strongly encourage candidates who are members of historically underrepresented groups and have non-traditional career paths to apply, including, but not limited to candidates from non-tech industries, candidates without Computer Science degrees who are self-taught, candidates starting second careers, re-entering the workforce, and those who have attended bootcamp-style programming courses.

Responsibilities
Full-stack product/systems development with a variety of languages such as C++, Java, PHP, JavaScript, etc.
Work closely with product management and UX design teams to define and refine feature specifications.
Design and develop front-end interfaces, underlying APIs, and backend systems across a number of programming languages with focus on JavaScript, React and PHP (Hack).
Learn, learn and learn.
Minimum Qualification
2+ years experience building software solutions in a corporate or start up engineering environment, or equivalent, using JavaScript, PHP, Python, Ruby, C++ and/or Java.
2+ years experience developing web applications.

Preferred Qualification
Bachelors degree in Computer Science/Math/Engineering, or equivalent educational experience.
Working knowledge of relational and non-relational databases and SQL.
Working knowledge of API design and distributed backend systems.
2+ years experience developing multi-tiered web apps.

The Oculus team at Facebook builds the VR hardware and platform to let you experience anything, anywhere, with anyone. Additionally, Facebook has teams dedicated to building social experiences in VR that make it easier to spend time with your friends, wherever they are. Virtual reality’s potential to connect the world is immense—and we’re just getting started. Oculus Research is driving the state of the art forward with breakthrough work in computer vision, advanced optics, eye tracking, mixed reality, and new ways to map the human body. Oculus is a world leader in the design of virtual and augmented reality systems. Come work alongside expert software engineers and research scientists to create the technology that makes VR and AR pervasive and universal. Join the adventure of a lifetime as we make science fiction real and change the world. As a software engineer on the Oculus Core OS team, you will be a key contributor to developing the first generations of standalone VR headsets and providing Oculus' customers the first purpose-built devices to experience anything, anywhere, with anyone. You will collaborate with engineers and product managers across Oculus, Facebook, and partner companies to identify and solve a diverse set of technical challenges across the full technology stack: hardware, firmware, kernel, frameworks and applications. You will have the opportunity to define the total user experience for a brand-new category of computing systems.

Responsibilities
Develop core operating system boot, kernel and service frameworks for standalone VR headsets
Partner with vision, EE and hardware engineers to build the most comfortable VR tracking and input technologies
Collaborate with user experience engineers and PMs to translate OS interface motifs from 2D to VR
Implement the infrastructure needed to support a family of standalone VR products
Minimum Qualification
BS degree in computer science or related field
2+ years of programming experience in C++ / C
2+ years experience in the following: device driver development or embedded systems, or operating systems

Preferred Qualification
Experience in native systems development
Experience with manufacturing and provisioning processes for mobile devices
Experience developing HAL and device drivers for embedded Linux or Android
Experience performing hardware bring-up

Responsibilities
Full stack web/mobile application development with a variety of languages including but not limited to PHP, JavaScript, HTML, etc.
Create consumer products and features using internal programming language Hack
Implement web or mobile interfaces using XHTML, CSS, and JavaScript
Work closely with our PM and design teams to define feature specifications and build the next generation of products leveraging frameworks such as React & React Native
Work closely with operations and infrastructure to build and scale back-end services
Build report interfaces and data feeds
Minimum Qualification
5+ years of programming experience
5+ years relevant experience building large-scale applications

Preferred Qualification
B.S. or M.S. Computer Science or related field
Experience with PHP and C++

he AR/VR team at Facebook is helping more people around the world come together and connect through world-class Augmented, Mixed and Virtual Reality hardware and software. With global departments dedicated to AR/VR research, computer vision, haptics, social interaction, and more, we are committed to driving the state of the art forward through relentless innovation. AR and VR potential to change the world is immense -- and were just getting started.

Our Core Tech team explores, develops, and delivers new cutting-edge technologies that serve as the foundation of current and future AR/VR products. From mixed reality and human interaction to natural input and beyond, Core Tech is focused on taking new technologies from early concept to the product level while iterating, prototyping, and realizing the human value and new experiences they open up.

Are you a Software Engineer with a deep C++ skillset and a passion for exploring and solving challenging computer vision and image processing problems? You’re also a 3D math whiz with a background in real time systems such as computer graphics, physics engines or robotics? You love solving novel problems from first principles? You're always on the lookout for better, faster, and more efficient solutions? We encourage you to apply.

Responsibilities
Invent, analyze, design, develop and optimize real time VR and AR computer vision algorithms in areas related to 3D reconstruction, SLAM, object detection and tracking, sensor fusion and camera calibration
Collaborate in a team environment across multiple scientific and engineering disciplines, making the architectural trade-offs required to rapidly deliver software solutions
Develop software for a variety of consumer devices, including novel sensing systems, tracking systems, imaging systems and haptic devices
Write clean readable code, debug complex problems that span systems, prioritize ruthlessly and get things done with a high level of efficiency
Learn constantly, dive into new areas with unfamiliar technologies, and embrace the ambiguity of AR and VR problem solving
Minimum Qualification
Bachelor in Computer Engineering, Computer Science, or Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences
3 or more years C++ experience and used in the last 2 years, including modern C++ features
Proven track record of software development, including shipping one or more products
Problem solving and optimization experience
Demonstrated experience working collaboratively in cross-functional teams

Preferred Qualification
Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.) in Computer Engineering, Computer Science, or Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences
Expertise in Physics, Optics, Computer Vision, Robotics, Sensor Fusion, or Machine Learning
Experience in shipping computer vision or image processing product to customers

Every month, more than 1.57 billion people access Facebook using mobile devices from across the world. The Facebook Mobile team constantly pushes the boundaries of the Facebook Mobile experience, as a leader in an exciting and fast-paced industry that is evolving daily. We are seeking full-time Android Engineers to join the Mobile team. As a Facebook Mobile Software Engineer, you will specialize in building elegant products on world-class technologies that bring the Facebook experience to hundreds of millions of people - anytime and anywhere.

We are looking for someone that has strong experience developing user interfaces for applications on Android using Android SDK. If you are interested in joining a world-class team of passionate people and industry veterans who like to work hard and play hard, we look forward to hearing from you soon!

Responsibilities
Work closely with our product and design teams to customize the Facebook experience for the Android platform
Prototype new and redesign features
A focus on UI design principles and making apps work intuitively
Contribute best-in-class programming skills to develop highly innovative, consumer-facing mobile products
Minimum Qualification
B.S. or M.S. Computer Science or 4+ years similar work experience
3+ years of object-oriented software development experience
2+ years experience building Android applications in Java
2+ years mobile application development experience (Android, J2ME or Blackberry)
Coding experience and experience with Java and Android SDK
Experience in understanding code bases, including API design techniques
Experience in the following technologies:
Java language and related frameworks
Multi-Threading and memory management specific to mobile devices
Knowledge of caching mechanisms


Facebook AR/VR focuses on delivering Facebook's vision through Virtual Reality (VR) and Augmented Reality (AR). Enabling compelling user experiences on Virtual and Augmented Reality devices requires innovation and co-design across all layers of stack from novel algorithms to custom silicon. Facebook AR/VR team is driving the state of the art forward with breakthrough work in computer vision, speech, virtual assistant, machine learning, mixed reality, graphics, displays, sensors, and new ways to map the human body among many others. We are seeking a Software Engineer with a background in Deep Learning, Computer Vision, Speech and/or NLP to join our On-device AI team. This team focuses on designing efficient Deep Learning-based solutions to enable compelling user experiences on mobile AR/VR systems - with particular focus on enabling on-device execution for latency, power efficiency and privacy. The ideal candidate will have practical experience in developing deep learning techniques to address challenging problems and achieve high accuracy under deployment constraints such as limited compute resources, execution latency. In this position, you will get exposure to the full stack from user experiences, algorithms down to hardware execution blocks. You will work with the domain experts in vision and assistant-related aspects of Virtual/Augmented Reality to understand the challenges and build state-of-the-art networks to tackle them and then work with the software/hardware team to deploy these solutions on-device.

Responsibilities
Define, plan and execute cutting-edge deep learning research to advance AR/VR experiences.
Develop novel deep learning techniques to achieve state-of-the-art accuracy within the constraints of on-device and real-time execution.
Collaborate with other research scientists and software engineers to develop innovative deep learning techniques for vision, speech, user interface and other use-cases.
Collaborate with software and hardware engineers to develop tradeoff curves for accuracy vs. the runtime resources/constraints such as latency, energy.
Communicate the experimental results and the recommendations clearly, both within the group as well as to the cross-functional groups.
Minimum Qualification
B.S. in Computer Science or equivalent experience.
Experience in developing machine learning solutions for problems.
Proven software skills.
Programming experience and experience with deep learning framework for prototyping ideas.
Knowledge of algorithm design and performance profiling.

Preferred Qualification
Publication track record in machine learning conferences and/or journals.
Knowledge of computer architecture concepts.
Experience in optimizing deep learning networks for execution constraints besides just the final accuracy.
Background in computer vision, speech, or natural language understanding.

Facebook is seeking an experienced Compiler Software Engineer to join the Software Engineering (Developer Infrastructure) team. The Software Engineering (Developer Infrastructure) team builds solutions and tooling that support Facebook’s large engineering staff and the products that these teams build. This position is full-time and is based in our main office in Menlo Park, CA.

Responsibilities
Analyze and design effective compiler optimizations
Implement and/or enhance code generation targeting mobile or server platforms
Code using primarily C++
Interface with other compiler-focused teams to evaluate and incorporate their innovations and vice versa
Conduct design and code reviews
Analyze and improve efficiency, scalability, and stability of our toolchains
Minimum Qualification
B.S. Computer Science or related technical field
1+ years experience working on and contributing to an active compiler toolchain codebase, such as LLVM, GCC, MSVC
Interest in the Compiler field

Preferred Qualification
M.S. or Ph.D. training in compiler engineering or related fields
4+ years relevant coding experience in C or C++

Come invent the future. At Facebook Reality Labs, software development is vital to turbocharging our scientific explorations and generating viable paths to the consumer products people will use for decades to come — products that will literally give people super powers. If you're a C/C++ software engineering expert with deep knowledge of real-time systems, with a love for solving novel problems from first principles, and an aptitude for optimization, you'll thrive in our collaborative environment. Join a world-class team of pioneers experimenting with breakthrough interaction technology, including virtual humans, from capture to reproduction. Partner with expert research scientists, mechanical engineers, electrical engineers and other brilliant software minds to build cutting-edge prototypes and create the technology that makes AR/VR universal. At the Pittsburgh lab, we aspire to a vision of social VR and AR, where people are able to interact with each other across distances in a way that is indistinguishable from in-person interactions. We're just getting started. You can help us make this dream a reality.

Responsibilities
Analyze, evaluate, design, develop, integrate, debug and test real-time AR and VR software for realistic telepresence
Help design and build a next generation user interaction software platform for AR/VR
Work side by side with research scientists to enable an array of user studies that evaluate the perceptual effects of various AR/VR interactions
Collaborate in a team environment across multiple scientific and engineering disciplines, making the architectural trade-offs required to rapidly deliver software solutions
Write clean readable code, debug complex problems that span systems, prioritize ruthlessly and get things done with a high level of efficiency
Learn constantly, educate others, dive into new areas with unfamiliar technologies, and embrace the ambiguity of AR/VR problem solving
Minimum Qualification
3+ years experience with modern C++ (14 and above)
Demonstrated architecture and design experience
Experience creating or extending real-time 3D engine systems such as graphics rendering, audio, physics, networking or animation
Track record of going from prototype to production ready code
Experience working independently and in a cross-functional environment

Preferred Qualification
5+ years experience with modern C++ (14 and above)
Experience evaluating sensor input and performing sensor fusion
Experience with computer vision
Experience with machine learning
Experience with applied linear algebra and 3D geometry
Experience developing AR/VR applications
Experience with real-time physics simulations
Experience with novel input systems

The Member Growth and Services team joined the Windows + Devices group and is looking for a passioned cloud services software engineer to drive some of the key cloud services investments at Microsoft. The Team is focused on the delivery of innovative scenarios that light up Microsoft Account experiences across Web, Xbox and beyond. As part of our product development, you will be owning code that powers one the key Microsoft’s customer facing web portal <<https://account.microsoft.com>> which is visited by 2.5M customers globally a day. The Team at the time is looking ahead to design and build new world class user experiences for upcoming Windows releases - this is a great opportunity to be part of the design and building, from ground up, brand new services. The Team operates in combined engineering, and embraces continuous development and services excellence and have well optimized Agile processes to support continuous shipping.

Responsibilities

Skills & Qualifications:
BA/BS degree in CS, related discipline or equivalent work experience
Experience in C# or Java required
4 or more years of cloud services design and development experience
Experience in building cloud services from scratch and scaling to millions of users
Experience in Design Patterns on how to build scalable, performant and high through put services
Passion, excitement and experience around data-driven decision making
Customer empathy and passion for building delightful user experiences.
Experience with agile engineering techniques
Desire to make an immediate impact within a mature product and organization.
Enjoys working with teams across the organization to solve business problems in creative ways.

Interested in working on open source, containers and Kubernetes at a leading hyper-scale cloud? Azure is looking for engineers at all levels with knowledge and interest in containers, Kubernetes and open source DevOps tools like Helm and Terraform. In this role, you can help shape the future of Kubernetes.

Responsibilities

You would be responsible for adding new features and enhancements to Kubernetes and create open source solutions that enhance the entire Kubernetes ecosystem. You will also provide support to enable new features in various Azure services.

Qualifications

Qualified candidates will have:

+7 years software development experience
BSc in Computer Science or equivalent
Passion for excellence, and a willingness to deal with ambiguity
Experience working in DevOps or on open source projects is a significant plus. Experience with other cloud platforms and open source projects are a plus.
Core Services Engineering builds and manages the critical products and services that Microsoft runs on. We boldly pursue big ideas that power transformational advances at Microsoft and for our customers, while helping Microsoft teams work smarter, faster and more securely every day. Core Services Engineering employees have deep technical and business expertise, customer insights, and a clear point of view that comes from first-hand, large-scale experience with Microsoft and industry solutions. We are engineers, technology leaders and experts, digital transformation change agents, and customer advocates.

We have exciting opportunities for you to innovate, influence, transform, inspire and grow within our organization and we encourage you to apply to learn more!

Responsibilities

Are you passionate about delivering solutions to help Microsoft’s customers, and do you love to solve challenging problems through innovative engineering of end-to-end customer experience solutions? Are you naturally curious, deeply technical, and have experience building products and services? Do you want an agile and collaborative environment where you can tackle challenges that deliver immediate and measurable business impact? Microsoft Core Platform Engineering is at the forefront of creating innovative solutions based on Modern Engineering principles across a variety of channels, allowing our customers to get the support they need, when they need it, for any of Microsoft’s products and services!

We are looking for candidates who can think broadly, collaborate well, pick up and contribute to a broad range of technologies, and generally want to have fun enabling enterprise customers to leverage technology to be their most efficient and effective in their business.

Qualifications

Successful candidates will exhibit various attributes which will enhance their ability to succeed in these various positions.
Collaboration - As most development is about working with others, both within an immediate team, as well as across business units and portions of the company, an ability to collaborate effectively is a core competency to have.
Customer Focus - A focus on delivering customer value and being able to directly tie engineering decisions and actions to that value is a huge plus for successful engineers at any level.
Drive For Results - Being able to drive for results, not merely finding the boundary of your responsibility, but following a problem through to its conclusion, to solve it once and for all, is a skill and ability which a successful engineer should exhibit.

Are you passionate about building the state of art Cloud Sever Platform? Are you passionate about building and leading fast paced teams? Microsoft Cloud Server Infrastructure Firmware Development team is responsible for server hardware definition, design and development of Server and Rack Infrastructure engineering for Microsoft cloud services. We work closely with Microsoft product groups, industry partners and researchers to architect and develop server hardware solutions that meet the requirements for our cloud services platforms at the lowest possible cost of ownership (TCO).

Role & Opportunity

Firmware Engineer responsible for the design, and development of firmware solutions for Microsoft Azure Cloud Sever Platform. This person will be tasked to develop and deliver an overall firmware engineering solutions, interface with cross functional teams for end-to-end system integration and champion innovation and develop new processes for increased efficiency across this group.

Azure cloud hardware infrastructure (CHIE) is a fast growing R&D organization that designs, engineers and qualifies the entire cloud-optimized infrastructure, including advanced Compute and Storage server technology that push the technological advances to meet ever evolving demands of Cloud computing paradigm.

We are seeking a talented firmware engineer who is passionate about delivering highly reliable and secure UEFI solutions for Microsoft Azure Cloud Server platforms. The candidate would contribute to the definition, design, implementation and deployment and collaborate closely with program management, hardware engineers, validation, cloud service teams and external ODM/OEM partners.

Join the Azure CHIE Firmware team for spearheading UEF value addition in Cloud.

Responsibilities
Drive and document firmware definitions and requirements
Enable and implement UEFI features to advance security, reliability, availability and serviceability
Debug across HW, FW and SW stacks and skilled at using SW and HW debugging tools
Work across multiple disciplines and functions to drive platform innovation such as Azure engineering groups, HW, validation, ISV.

Qualifications
A BS in Electrical Engineering, Computer Science or related field or equivalent experience
A minimum of 7+ years of experience on embedded FW or UEFI FW development
Proficient C/C++ design and coding skills
Excellent debugging skills such as JTAG
A high tolerance for ambiguity and change
Excellent written and oral communications

The Azure Messaging team is looking to build the next set of PaaS services to deliver the highest levels of reliability and performance. Azure Messaging services enable applications to support massive scale, can be operated with ease in public or private datacenters around the world and enable secure interconnection for millions of devices to and from the cloud.

Azure Event Hubs service provides real-time data ingestion service for Azure customers. The service is one of the fastest growing Azure services and we are looking for highly motivated and talented engineers to build next generation of messaging platform for various applications which require real time data ingestion, analytics, telemetry, or millions of devices connectivity.

Azure Service Bus asynchronous messaging patterns are the architectural cornerstone of reliable and scalable applications. Integrating cloud resources like Azure SQL Database, Storage, and Web Apps for App Service, with Service Bus messaging ensures smooth operation under heavy and variable load with the durability to survive intermittent failures.

Azure Event Grid allows you to build reactive, event-driven apps with a fully managed event routing service. The Event Grid is a hyper-scale publish and subscribe service designed to route events raised by resources inside of the Azure platform and by event sources defined by customer solutions inside and outside of Azure to many concurrent subscribers and serverless functions at very high throughput rates, with high reliability and near real time latency.

Responsibilities

In the team, our day to day job involves working on some of the toughest and coolest distributed challenges like:

Build real-time data ingestion services which supports millions of messages being processed per second with 99.99% service availability.
Build highly reliable distributed storage systems which supports low latency/high throughput for ingestion relying on cutting edge technologies like Azure Service Fabric.
Supports SAAS applications like Office 365, HALO, App Insights, Xbox Live and many more
Support tens of thousands of Azure applications where the messaging services are the backbone for core features like: Triggering of event notifications, asynchronous, reliable communication, telemetry and diagnostics.
Integrate with ecosystems such as: IoT applications, Apache Hadoop, Apache Spark, Azure Stream Analytics, Cosmos.

Qualifications

We are looking for engineers with strong problem solving, design, coding and debugging skills, drive for execution and results, while delivering quality software for large scale projects. We value passion, creativity, desire to learn new complex technical areas, agility and accountability. Join a world-class team that is set up to innovate, create and lead from the ground up. Create innovating systems, ship often, constantly interact with customers and have fun.

Basic Qualifications
BS/MS in Computer Science (or equivalent industry experience)
Solid CS fundamentals, fluent in multi-threaded, asynchronous programming, strong inclination for architecting at scale
Excellent technical design, problem solving and debugging skills
Good written and oral communication skills

Software engineers at Microsoft are passionate about building technologies that make the world a better place. At Microsoft, you will collaborate with others to solve problems and build some of the world's most advanced services and devices. Your efforts on the design, development, and testing of next-generation applications will have an impact on millions of people.
Love new technological challenges and excel at solving them?
Excited about making better software while continuously improving the development, integration and deployment process?
Passionate about distributed systems and building high scale services?
Enjoy working in an agile development team that iterates rapidly?

If this sounds like you, Microsoft would like to invite you to come join us as you are, where you can find more than just a job. Read on to learn more about opportunities and apply online!

Overview

Microsoft’s COSINE (Core Operating System and Intelligent Edge) team is seeking Software Engineer (SWE) candidates who love to engineer solutions from concept to production.

COSINE is responsible for the Software Platform, Applications, Games, MS Store and Devices that power the Windows ecosystem. The team enables faster innovation in existing and new devices at scale by creating a platform with diverse hardware support, great fundamentals, and modern NUI’s that catalyze innovation. COSINE provides programs and services to promote development agility, experience coherence & customer engagement and fuels growth in our security business through device and cloud innovations. 

Software Engineer

Software engineers (SWEs) collaborate with a committed team to design, develop and test the next generation of technology solutions for millions of people.

Responsibilities

Responsibilities

Software Engineer

Software engineers (SWEs) work with teammates to solve problems and build innovative software solutions. You are passionate about customers and product quality, and you provide technical guidance to Program Managers as they consider user needs and product requirements. You will also be expected to demonstrate an ability to learn and adopt relevant new technologies, tools, methods and processes to leverage in your solutions.

As a SWE, you are dedicated to building software to empower every person and organization on the planet to achieve more.

Qualifications

Qualifications

Software Engineer
Bachelor’s or master’s degree in Engineering, Computer Science or related field OR 3+ years of relevant software development experience.
2+ years of experience developing scalable, reliable system-level software with one or more general purpose programming languages; including Java, C/C++, C#, Python, JavaScript, PowerShell.
Ability to demonstrate understanding of algorithms, data structures and other systems architecture factors that affect code quality, performance and customer experience.
Experience collaborating, creating partnerships across teams and shipping production features in a fast-paced environment.
Strong design, coding, problem solving, analytical and communication skills.
Passion for developing delightful customer experiences.
Knowledge of Microsoft Azure, AWS or similar cloud computing platforms is preferred.

The CSI Firmware Deployment team within Azure is responsible for monitoring and deploying the firmware that powers the cloud hardware. You will design, develop and implement infrastructure components and services that enable delivery of embedded firmware into Microsoft’s massive global cloud infrastructure, and to help continually improve the process.

To support this effort, we are looking for a Software Engineer based in Redmond, WA, who can design, develop and implement infrastructure services that enables scalable and agile management of the ever-growing Azure hardware.

Qualifications
bachelor’s required, MS desired
4+ years hands on Programming skills with C, C++ or C#
Passion for large scale and high-volume data center environment is essential.
Individual effectiveness skills such as discipline, time management, decision making, planning and organizing work, summarizing results through technical reports (TFS, MS Office) are highly desired.
Self-motivated individual, must be able work independently as well as collaboratively in a team environment and across the team of engineers.
Must be able to plan work, and work to a plan adapting as necessary in a rapidly evolving Environment
The new Microsoft Edge web browser, based on the Chromium open source project, is nearing stable release. The browser is the most-used class of application on Windows and other platforms, and Edge is currently used by hundreds of millions of users, so the work we do has the potential to greatly improve the lives of our users. We are hiring a software engineer to help build central user experiences including the address bar, search integration, and the new tab page. We seek to delight customers, improve Microsoft’s search and news business, and help fulfill Microsoft’s vision to empower every person and every organization on the planet to achieve more.

You are a great fit for this position if you:
Want to work on a critical product in a highly competitive space
Have a real passion for crafting user experiences and delivering business results
Have excellent communication skills with the ability to participate in work streams and negotiations across teams
Have strong engineering practices, including great coding, debugging, performance analysis, and analytical skills

Responsibilities

Responsibilities
Develop improvements to the address bar and new tab page in Microsoft Edge to increase user satisfaction in these key areas.
Partner with designers, program managers, and data analytics to deliver a product that delights users
Cultivate collaborative relationships with our partners across Microsoft to improve the Edge experience
Use agile development principles to produce continuous value while readily adapting to change

Qualifications

Required Qualifications:
BS or MS in Computer Science or Engineering, or a related technical discipline
2 years of C, C++, C#, or Java experience
As an Engineer in the team, you will employ the powers of big data processing to discover patterns and connections in our large and varied ecosystem. You will have the opportunity to build customer-facing services, portals and tools. You will work in a rewarding, agile environment that is constantly learning and improving. You will participate in all stages of constructing software: from ideation to planning, development, testing, and operationalization in production. You will get to work on a vision with a lot of breadth and is fundamental to the Windows business.

Here Are Some Things About Our Team
We are a highly collaborative team tackling many challenging problems across numerous technical domains.
We take people development and career growth seriously.
We love and encourage new ideas from the members of our team and are very open to seeing them in action.
The work we do here impacts hundreds of millions of lives across the world!
Qualifications

The ideal candidate will have:
Experience with Big Data
Experience coding with .NET, C#, C or C++
Familiarity with Azure technologies is a plus
Great learning mindset

The SMB segment has tremendous opportunity with more users and more PCs and devices than the Enterprise.  Microsoft has incredible knowledge, success and experience in the Enterprise, and our mission is to replicate this success in SMB. To accomplish this, we are creating a new SMB team to drive greater adoption of Microsoft 365 Business. This team is to become the experts of SMB customers and the partners who are their trusted advisors. The SMB team will be world class at working across Microsoft to drive alignment and the simplified end-to-end scenarios for the SMB customer and partner ecosystem. The ultimate measure of success will be the achievement of the M365 SMB revenue and usage targets.

Qualifications
2+ years hands-on experience with object-oriented programming languages (e.g., C++, C#, Python or C++)
1+ years of experience with scripting languages (e.g., Powershell, JavaScript, HTML, CSS)
Experience developing modern web and mobile applications using frameworks (e.g., .Net, React, Angular)
Experience with Machine Learning and Big Data (e.g. Azure Cognitive Services)
Knowledge of developing large scale, resilient cloud services (e.g., Azure)
Strong problem solving and debugging skills, testing and test automation frameworks
Experience with DevOps tools (e.g., Azure Dev Ops)
Good communication skills, dealing with high degree of ambiguity and ability to collaborate across organizational boundaries
Bachelor’s degree in Computer Science or related field is required
Ability to meet Microsoft, customer and/or government security

Be part of the Mobile First, Cloud First excitement! The Microsoft Intune team delivers mobile device management, mobile application management and desktop computer management solutions from the Azure cloud. Intune securely manages Windows, iOS, and Android from a single, unified mobile solution. Organizations that utilize Intune allow employees to access corporate applications, data, and resources from virtually anywhere.

Intune is part of the Microsoft Enterprise Mobility + Security Suite (EMS), which is one of the fastest growing enterprise services within Microsoft. Our team is looking for highly-motivated engineers who can help us expand the current Intune offering with new innovative services that focus on information security. Intune is a Azure-based service in the Enterprise Experience and Management (EEM) space that helps enable customers' workforce to be productive while keeping corporate data protected. Here, you will work with distributed systems, microservices, APIs, and more.

Responsibilities

We are a group of supportive team players, working on critical and strategic projects in Intune. The projects require engineers who are able to deliver robust designs and code across backend microservices and front-end UX. In addition, engineers will be working in a fast-paced agile environment and need to be able to debug and optimize work across numerous services and teams. We value collaboration, customer obsession, and an open culture that pursues continuous success for technology and people.

Qualifications
BS/MS in Computer Science, Engineering or related technical fieldPreferred Qualifications:
1+ years software engineering experience developing software
Strong coding, debugging and problem-solving skills
Strong knowledge of object-oriented programming language paradigms
Great communication skills to collaborate cross-group and work effectively within the team
Expertise in web or mobile application development
Expertise in relational databases, distributed systems and/or big data technologies
Experience in developing large scale online service

Azure is the fastest-growing business in Microsoft’s history and is the foundation of Microsoft’s commercial Cloud Services. Azure differentiates itself as the only hyper-scale, enterprise-grade Cloud that has a true hybrid story.
We are hiring developers to help drive our Azure VMware initiative focused on enabling global scale offerings.
In this role you will break out of the norm by helping Microsoft become a world leader at running and operating mission-critical workloads, often running on dedicated hardware. We’re a small, agile, nimble team in Azure focused on bringing the state of the art of mission-critical software into Microsoft. Come join us and be part of this revolution.

Skills
Expertise with VMWare V-Sphere, NSX, vSAN, ESXi
Open Source, Linux, Go, Kubernetes, knowledge of networking, containers
Basic Qualifications
BS in Computer Science or equivalent
5+ years of software engineering experience
Responsibilities
Own and deliver software services to scale, secure, monitor and auto-manage specialized workloads on Azure.
You will get to solve hard distributed system problems while making changes to fundamental Azure control and data plane components, networking and operating systems
Build seamless integration for specialized workloads in Azure. This would involve contributions and usage of OSS systems, writing cross-platform services that run efficiently on Windows and Linux.

o you want to be part of the team that shapes the audio experience of millions of users? Our team powers the audio stack for Microsoft’s real-time communication solutions, including Skype and Microsoft Teams - the fastest growing application in Microsoft’s history - and we are looking for an exceptional audio DSP engineer to help us grow even further. As part of the Audio DSP team, you will be working on cutting-edge signal processing and machine learning technologies to provide excellent audio quality to our customers across a variety of devices and networks. You will be part of a team of talented audio experts with rich experience and will collaborate with research groups across Microsoft.

#IC3

Responsibilities
Design, implementation and evaluation of DSP algorithms such as echo cancellation, noise reduction, beamforming, dereverberation.
Apply deep learning along with classical DSP to improve audio quality for our users
Work across the product lifecycle from prototyping proof-of-concepts to shipping production-grade code optimized for CPU and memory
AB test new solutions in production
Remain up to date with latest advancements, trends and research in the area and apply them in our products
Collaborate with other engineering teams across the company to ensure end-to-end integration with existing products and platforms
Contribute towards building our intellectual property portfolio in the audio DSP area

Qualifications
5+ years of experience in research and development of speech/audio signal processing algorithms for real-time communications such as acoustic echo cancellation, beamforming, dereverberation, noise reduction, gain control, etc.
Prior experience in developing deep learned models for one or more of the above problems is a strong plus.
Strong background in statistical signal processing, speech modeling/perception, room acoustics, adaptive filtering, and estimation theory.
Strong coding skills in C/C++ in a production environment. Comfortable with MATLAB and/or Python for prototyping.
A strong passion for high-fidelity audio

We are looking for a strong engineer- someone who brings deep technical/problem solving chops, customer empathy & a passion for getting things done. You can figure out any new technology and can build from the ground up OR leverage the work of others- do what needs to be done- to land a fantastic product and exceed customer/market expectations. Ideal candidate should have experience building and delivering web or mobile applications, solving hard problems in services, machine learning or real-time communications space. Familiarity with Angular/React/HTTPS/SIP/Exchange/Azure all huge pluses.

Required

The Core skills we are looking for are:
2+ years Professional experience with at least one of C#/C/C++/Java/other programming language
BS degree preferably in CS or related engineering field
Preferred

Qualifications
2+ years of implementing code level patterns that allow large codebases & teams to scale.
2+ years of mentoring junior ICs, and operating in a tech lead or people management capacity on large projects.
Experience driving efforts across product groups and business units.
Exposure to networking and telephony protocols such as HTTPS, TCP/IP stack, SIP, ICE, RTP, RTCP.
Experience developing and maintaining large scale distributed systems on Azure or AWS
Demonstrated passion for building great end-user experiences

magine what you could do here. At Apple, new ideas have a way of becoming phenomenal products, services, and customer experiences very quickly. Bring passion and dedication to your job and there's no telling what you could accomplish.

Key Qualifications

Experience designing, implementing and supporting highly scalable applications and web services.
Experience with SQL and NoSQL database technologies.
Multithreaded or event-driven programming.
Excellent analytical and problem solving skills.
Excellent written and interpersonal skills.
Aptitude to independently learn new technologies.
Ability to design, develop and deploy large scale applications.
Be able to drive a project from a simple idea to an implementation.
Be a leader who possesses both strong programming skills and a creative, user-focused mindset.
Ability to thrive in a multi-functional team on high profile, critical projects.
Preferred Experience:
Java, C, C++.
NoSQL databases such as Cassandra, HBase.
Linux.
Description

Consider joining a 


A successful track-record and proven experience as a backend internet services software developer.
Proven aptitude for building, launching and operating very large-scale production internet services.
Description

We are building, and supporting new, critical infrastructural systems and frameworks which provide and support services like structured and unstructured storage, caching, queueing, searching, and much more. These form the platform upon which many iCloud and other backend systems at Apple are built.

The team is responsible for the next generation platform that will power Apple’s infrastructural services. These services have huge scale and store hundreds of petabytes of data. The platform will support a variety of services based on open-source software, such as Apache Cassandra, SOLR, Zookeeper, Kafka, Redis, etc.

We are looking for a strong, enthusiastic developer to join as a member of this group. This person will have a tremendous amount of individual responsibility and influence over the direction the backend of many critical Apple internet services take for years to come. You are someone with ideas and real passion for software delivered as a service to improve reuse, efficiency, and simplicity. This engineer’s work will affect hundreds of millions of users and be essential to the success of some of the most visible current and future Apple features.

Key Qualifications

Experience designing, implementing and supporting highly scalable applications and web services.
Experience with SQL and NoSQL database technologies.
Multithreaded or event-driven programming.
Excellent analytical and problem solving skills.
Excellent written and interpersonal skills.
Aptitude to independently learn new technologies.
Ability to design, develop and deploy large scale applications.
Be able to drive a project from a simple idea to an implementation.
Be a leader who possesses both strong programming skills and a creative, user-focused mindset.
Ability to thrive in a multi-functional team on high profile, critical projects.
Preferred Experience:
Java, C, C++.
NoSQL databases such as Cassandra, HBase.
Linux.
Description

Consider joining a small team writing the software which forms the foundation for some of our most exciting Cloud Services products. We are looking for a deeply capable engineer who has a strong background in web services development, and who has built high-performance, scalable and extensible systems. In this highly visible position, you will collaborate with multi-functional engineering teams to define and implement some of the core backend platform frameworks and systems that will power next generation Apple web services. Do you love the challenge of solving complex problems that can have a direct impact on the success of the company? Then we have the job for you! We promote innovation and new technology to further improve our creative output. We're looking for a talented and passionate person to join this amazing team, if you feel this is you, we'd love to hear from you.

Are you interested in building the next generation of iOS apps? The Reminders team at Apple is looking for talented iOS App developers to join a small team of highly skilled engineers to build world class applications across all of Apple’s platforms. As a member of our team, you'll be responsible for building features for upcoming releases, prototyping new feature concepts, and making sure our users always have a great experience.

Key Qualifications
Strong grasp of Swift and/or Objective-C design patterns
Knowledge of iOS frameworks such as Core Data, SQL, and CloudKit
Ability to write performant and correct multi-threaded code
Passion for quality and attention to detail
Aptitude to independently learn new technologies
Superior ability to identify and resolve complex problems
Excellent oral and written communication skills
Responsibilities

This position requires a self-motivated engineer with strong technical and communication skills to handle responsibilities including

DescriptionThis position requires deep knowledge of Core Data, SQL, and CloudKit. You must be comfortable with rapidly evolving designs and requirements, and have excellent interpersonal skills. Throughout the process, you will work collaboratively with our world-class team of engineers, partner with designers, and coordinate with other teams at Apple including the iOS, macOS, and watchOS teams.
Implementing new features
Prototyping new ideas to help with initial feature definition
Communicating ideas to the Apple design team and other cross functional teams
Participating in architecture and code reviews
Exploring new frameworks and technologies and how they can aid in implementing new features
Building internal tools as needed to help ship high quality software

The HomeKit protocol team is looking for an experienced software developer that is excited about evolving the HomeKit protocol to support new features, novel experiences, and future transports.In order to create the truly revolutionary connected and intelligent home experience, the HomeKit protocol is being adapted to support new technologies. As part of the larger HomeKit team, you will contribute towards defining how iOS interacts with HomeKit accessories to build your vision of a connected home.

Key Qualifications

You have 5-10+ years of software development experience
You are an accomplished coder in C and object-oriented languages, such as C++ or Objective-C
You have a well-founded grasp of computer science and software design fundamentals
You have comprehensive knowledge of wireless technologies and protocols
You value automated testing and continuous integration
You have experience shipping real products to customers
You thrive in a fast-paced collaborative environment with rapid development cycles
You have excellent communication skills
You are obsessively hardworking and inquisitive, and seek to solve everyday problems in innovative ways
You are laser-focused on the smallest details that are meaningful to customers
You have genuine passion for consumer devices
Description

You will join a small fun, focused team bringing the HomeKit protocol to the next level. Responsibilities including designing critical portions of the protocol, architecting software components, and implementing features with an emphasis on unit testing and continuous integration. The team is highly collaborative and pragmatic— we value everyone’s input, we love finding innovative solutions, and we prize ourselves on getting things done. There are no egos here; we work together as a team to collectively find new ways to operate more efficiently, to improve quality,and to 


Experience designing, implementing and supporting highly scalable applications and web services.
Experience with SQL and NoSQL database technologies.
Multithreaded or event-driven programming.
Excellent analytical and problem solving skills.
Excellent written and interpersonal skills.
Aptitude to independently learn new technologies.
Ability to design, develop and deploy large scale applications.
Be able to drive a project from a simple idea to an implementation.
Be a leader who possesses both strong programming skills and a creative, user-focused mindset.
Ability to thrive in a multi-functional team on high profile, critical projects.
Preferred Experience:
Java, C, C++.
NoSQL databases such as Cassandra, HBase.
Linux.
Description

Consider joining a small team writing the software which forms the foundation for some of our most exciting Cloud Services products. We are looking for a deeply capable engineer who has a strong background in web services development, and who has built high-performance, scalable and extensible systems. In this highly visible position, you will collaborate with multi-functional engineering teams to define and implement some of the core backend platform frameworks and systems that will power next generation Apple web services. Do you love the challenge of solving complex problems that can have a direct impact on the success of the company? Then we have the job for you! We promote innovation and new technology to further improve our creative output. We're looking for a talented and passionate person to join this amazing team, if you feel this is you, we'd love to hear from you.

The Interactive Media Group (IMG) provides the media and graphics foundation across all of Apple's innovative products, including iPhone, AppleTV, Apple Watch, iPad, iPod, Macs as well as professional and consumer applications from Final Cut to iTunes and iWork. IMG takes the media experience to the next level on the iOS, tvOS, watchOS, macOS and Windows platforms with technologies such as AVFoundation, CoreMedia, CoreAudio and CoreAnimation.
The CoreMedia engineering team within IMG is responsible for implementing software services around linear audiovisual media. This includes local media playback, video-on-demand and live streaming of multimedia content. Our media engine is used across Apple products such as Safari, Music & TV, Photos, Music, Videos, iMovie on iOS and macOS as well as 3rd party applications.
Our team is looking for a software engineer with a strong technical and programming background. Experience in development and debugging of large software systems and/or significant components of such systems is desired. Experience with media playback and export systems is preferred.

Key Qualifications
Strong coding skills in C with ARM on embedded platforms
Two or more years experience developing and debugging large software systems
Proven experience with Audio/Video components of a media software system
Experience with and understanding of real-time multithreaded programming systems
Excellent verbal and written communication skills
DescriptionThe successful candidate for this role is a team-oriented professional with excellent communication skills and is comfortable in a fast-paced environment. The candidate needs to be self-driven to be effective in an environment with little overhead.
The ideal candidate has experience in systems-level programming with an understanding of media components. The role requires the ability to help design, build and troubleshoot media services for playback and export. The candidate will be on the front line of triaging reported issues for the team and will need to quickly and efficiently analyze and debug the problems for further disposition.

Education & ExperienceB.S. or M.S. in EE/CS or equivalent domain experience with a strong focus in software engineering

The Apple Pay Server team is a rare engineering group within Apple. We provide critical services for the company across every product line. From manufacturing to customer facing, our services span across the entire lifecycle of most Apple hardware. By crafting and implementing services that are tightly coupled with hardware, we support the ongoing need to improve security of customer’s sensitive data (financial or otherwise) and privacy. Many of our services are seen in the iOS Security Guide and are publicly discussed on Internet forums.

Key Qualifications
5+ years experience in server software programming using Java
Experience in designing & developing highly scalable applications, RESTful web services
Detailed knowledge of relational and non-relational databases
Expertise in test-driven development
Proven track record of successful product delivery
Exceptional analytical and problem solving skills across large ecosystems
Proven ability to think criticality and quickly learn new technologies
Strong communication, collaboration & interpersonal skills
iOS and macOS familiarity preferred
Experience in payment industry is a plus
Expertise in identity management is a huge plus
Experience/understanding of security & cryptography is a plus
DescriptionImagine the freedom of a startup with the funding and laser focus of the most valuable company in the world.

As a software engineer on the Apple Pay Server team:

You will participate in initiatives that are essential to the success of upcoming product launches and product security initiatives
You will get the opportunity to be part of a small group of engineers working on product features
You will develop the next generation of cloud support that powers Apple Pay
You will be responsible for designing and developing large scale platforms that can support future Apple Pay functionality
You will have the opportunity to explore and contribute to a wide range of technologies
You will work collaboratively with Apple’s iOS Engineering team, NFC team, security team, and external partners to define the next hot feature of Apple Pay


Are you a big-picture thinker who loves setting ambitious goals? Do you have a passion for understanding how each line of code affects all the others? In the Wireless Technologies and Ecosystems team, ensuring the OS is inseparable from each device’s identity as a whole. That’s because this group is committed to building fully integrated operating systems that combine hardware, software, and apps into a single Apple experience. Your dedication to cross-disciplinary collaboration will help develop groundbreaking technologies, such as iOS, macOS, watchOS, and tvOS. By crafting these distinct, holistic user experiences, you’ll continue to uphold and advance the excellence people expect from Apple devices. The Wireless Technologies and Ecosystems HomeKit team is seeking an extraordinary engineer to work on state-of-the art technology for macOS, iOS, tvOS and watchOS. You should have a strong understanding of operating system fundamentals and experience working throughout the stack. As a member of the team, you would participate in all stages of software development, from new feature design and implementation, to maintenance and bug fixing of released code. You will develop and improve unit tests and performance tests, and may also work on diagnosing and resolving customer reported issues.

Key Qualifications
Expert level C, exposure to Objective-C
Experience with daemon and library development
Creative, critical thinking and troubleshooting skills
Excellent collaborative skills
Exceptional professionalism, with the ability to deliver solid work on tight schedules
Excellent written and verbal communication
A genuine passion for consumer devices
DescriptionYou will primarily be responsible for daemons and frameworks that support functionality throughout the system. Previous experience with writing or maintaining daemons, libraries and command line tools on a UNIX platform is key. You should have excellent analytical skills and debugging experience. In addition to developing and maintaining individual projects, you will also be expected to provide design guidance and technical support and expertise to teams across the company.
Are you passionate about Internationalization engineering? We are looking for a highly motivated engineer to work on new international language support on iOS, macOS and the Web. Internationalization engineering works on all aspects of all our applications from high level user interface to low-level frameworks. This will be one of the most meaningful and rewarding jobs of your career!

Key Qualifications
Strong programming skills in two or more of these languages: Java, C, Objective-C, C++, Swift, Javascript
Experience working in a large code base and on highly available large scale applications
Excellent communication and collaboration skills
Ability to continuously learn on the job
Excitement and passion for building amazing consumer products
Mac OS X and/or iOS programming experience
Understanding of Unicode and Unicode text processing algorithms
Set priorities and work efficiently in a fast-paced environment
Demonstrated ability to deliver results on time with high quality and attention to detail
Strong interpersonal skills

The Information Systems & Technology organization produces key business and technical infrastructure at Apple handling orders from the online store, building applications that improve the retail store experience, providing network bandwidth for our services around the world, processing every transaction in iTunes, and closing the books. We do it all. If you are a born problem solver who enjoys collaborating on the next big thing, we may just have your dream job.

From Apple ID to the Apple website to our data centers around the globe, IS&T manages the massive systems and services that so many rely on. They also build the custom tools that empower our employees to solve problems on their own. And that means these engineers are free to do what engineers do best - explore all of technology’s possibilities.

**This position can be based in Cupertino, CA OR Austin, TX**

Key Qualifications

Programming knowledge in at least one of the following areas: iOS, macOS, tvOS or WatchOS development (Objective- C, Swift), Web development (JavaScript, HTML, CSS3), Server side development (Java)
Related internship or job experience
Excellent quantitative and interpersonal skills
Leadership experience
Description

There are multiple opportunities across many different teams, ranging from special projects for new business initiatives to operations in a rapidly growing and dynamic setting.
pple delivers great features and great privacy to our users. The Privacy Engineering team works with teams all across the company to make sure that products and services protect user privacy by designing architectures that reduce the exposure of user data at all levels of the technology stack. We are looking for an outstanding candidate to become a member of the Apple User Privacy Team.

Key Qualifications

Passion for customer privacy
Ability to learn and research new technologies rapidly, assess privacy exposures, and suggest mitigations
Ability to analyze systems’ architectures for privacy impact
Programming experience
Ability to solve complex problems independently
Strong collaboration, communication, interpersonal, and organizational skills
Ability to track and manage numerous parallel activities
Ability to work in a fast-paced dynamic environment
Description

Privacy Engineers review features to identify privacy exposures and mitigate them, audit new products to identify and remediate bugs in development, review customer data collected by engineering teams to drive decisions, and work with teams to build new features to protect user privacy - from Wi-Fi MAC address randomization to Differential Privacy.

Phone is the most popular camera in the world, with billions of photos taken every year. The seamless integration of software and hardware has led to features like Smart HDR, Portrait Mode, and Live Photos which deliver magical experiences that surprise and delight our customers.

Key Qualifications
3+ years embedded SW development experience
Application development experiences for Unix-like OS
Strong C/C++ programming skills in multithreading environment.
Experiences with scripting language such as Python, Bash etc
Demonstrated ability to take initiative to solve problems without explicit directions
Excellent communication skill
DescriptionThe Software Tooling team in Camera & Photos organization provides various tooling solutions to enable photo/video data collection and asset database management, image quality assessment and tuning, the imaging algorithm development etc. As an engineer working on the Software Tooling team you'll work developing and extending our concurrent tooling solutions, working side-by-side with the world-class engineers that built iPhone’s camera to what it is today, and build new great camera capabilities spanning the universe of Apple devices. Whenever you see a “Shot on iPhone” billboard, you see our work; it could be your work too.

Come help make the most popular camera in the world even better. Come make your dent in the universe.

Phone is the most popular camera in the world, with billions of photos taken every year. The seamless integration of software and hardware has led to features like Smart HDR, Portrait Mode, and Live Photos which deliver magical experiences that surprise and delight our customers.

Key Qualifications
3+ years embedded SW development experience
Application development experiences for Unix-like OS
Strong C/C++ programming skills in multithreading environment.
Experiences with scripting language such as Python, Bash etc
Demonstrated ability to take initiative to solve problems without explicit directions
Excellent communication skill
DescriptionThe Software Tooling team in Camera & Photos organization provides various tooling solutions to enable photo/video data collection and asset database management, image quality assessment and tuning, the imaging algorithm development etc. As an engineer working on the Software Tooling team you'll work developing and extending our concurrent tooling solutions, working side-by-side with the world-class engineers that built iPhone’s camera to what it is today, and build new great camera capabilities spanning the universe of Apple devices. Whenever you see a “Shot on iPhone” billboard, you see our work; it could be your work too.

Come help make the most popular camera in the world even better. Come make your dent in the universe.

We are a diverse collection of thinkers and doers, continually reimagining our products, systems, and practices to help people do what they love in best user friendly efficient way. Apple is a deeply collaborative place, where everything we create is the result of people in different roles and teams working together to make each other’s ideas stronger. That same passion for innovation that goes into our products also applies to our practices, strengthening our commitment to leave the world better than we found it.

Today, the Retail Engineering provides one of the best Apple Experience to Customers in the world and operates in multiple countries worldwide.

We at the Retail store apps Cloud and Infrastructure engineering team strive to create and support tools and systems that enable our engineers to develop and publish software in a reliable and repeat-able way. We are looking for a passionate software engineer to join our team and help us build the next generation of tools that becomes the foundation of our cloud portfolio.

Are you a lifelong learner? Do you have a passion for building tools and automation? Come and join us in a fun-loving, highly motivated team and be a part of Apple’s WW retail journey.

Key Qualifications
Proficiency in object-oriented programming & concurrent systems
Production experience with developing web services based on REST standards (preferably in Java)
Experience working with web servers such as Tomcat, Spring Boot, Jetty, Nginx (preferably all)
Sound knowledge and experience of relational and nosql datastores (e.g. Oracle, Couchbase, Cassandra)
Sound knowledge on streaming solutions (e.g. Kafka, RabbitMQ)
Knowledge on Version Control Systems (GIT, SVN), build tools (e.g. Maven, Gradle, NPM, GoDep) and CI/CD tools (e.g. Jenkins / Travis CI/ Circle CI)
Knowledge on Linux based platforms, and Scripting in Shell/Python
Detailed understanding of containerization and cluster management technologies (e.g. Docker, Kubernetes, Swarm)
Expertise with cloud platforms such as AWS, GCP, Azure, or similar.
Experience with Golang or strong desire to learn
DescriptionAt Retail store apps team, we build and lead large scale web and iOS applications that are used by Apple retail store employees worldwide. As we expand our presence from Apple Data center to other cloud providers, we are looking for an ambitious and highly motivated software engineer to help us in this journey

Apple services make extensive use of Java Virtual Machine (JVM) and Java Development Kit (JDK) technology. Our team makes strategic investments and supports the JVM and JDK technology to ensure these Apple services work at peak capacity. Apple services are expected to work reliably on a global scale, and the JVM provides a critical piece of this infrastructure. Team members are passionate about working across a large organization to understand where runtime changes are justified, configuration changes, or if application tuning would be sufficient. If this is something which is exciting for you, we'd love to hear from you.

Key Qualifications
Expert knowledge of Java and C++
Garbage Collection (e.g. Parallel, G1, ZGC)
JIT technologies (e.g. Hotspot, GraalVM)
Java Development Kit (e.g. Java APIs and library implementations)
Understanding of Java Memory Model
Multi-threaded programming and concurrency concepts
Understanding of how to do JVM performance analysis and make corresponding improvement
Working with application and library developers to write more friendly code for the JVM/JDK
DescriptionContribute and build JVM and JDK software that enables services at Apple’s scale. We are looking for individual contributors and team leaders to improve the JVM and JDK at Apple. You will have the opportunity to work with a team which has set its sights on improving impact across Apple.

Education & ExperienceBachelor’s degree in Computer Science or equivalent industry experience
We are looking for an exceptional Software Engineer who can design, architect, and lead development of state of the art, rich web applications to support Apple's global Supply Chain & Operations teams. Our current applications are diverse and evolving combinations of old and new, closed and open source technologies. You are passionate about user interface design, and you are a knowledge resource for the latest trends and technologies. You like solving problems that directly impact the business. You thrive in a start-up environment, but can deliver large, scalable solutions. If this describes you then you should consider joining our team.

Forget performing the same repetitive task over and over. In this position you’ll be able to move from project to project, working with dedicated business stakeholders and designing great software applications that fulfill the users needs. Put your hard-earned knowledge of the latest web or Swift technologies to use in projects that will have a significant impact in Apple's supply chain business. You should be able to work and thrive in a fast paced environment with changing priorities and tight deadlines. You should be comfortable wearing many hats. You will be part of a small, collaborative team of talented engineers.

Key Qualifications
5+ years software development experience.
Expertise architecting, designing and developing web solutions using object-oriented design skills.
3+ years of experience with PHP (Laravel application framework is a plus) or Node.js
Expertise with React.js and the React ecosystem (Redux/MobX), ES6/7 (TypeScript is a plus).
3+ years of experience with Swift and/or Objective-C with desire to learn Swift.
Expertise with Xcode, including XCTest, debugging, code signing.
Experience working with the various Cocoa and/or Cocoa Touch frameworks (e.g. Foundation, AppKit/UIKit
Expert in UI/UX design.
Demonstrated abilities in SQL, database design, data modeling, and expedient querying.
Expertise with Git (experience with GitHub and Gitflow a plus).
Ability to research and quickly work with new technologies.
Strong analytical mindset with a maniacal attention to detail.
Willingness to maintain and enhance existing code.
Experience with relational and NoSQL databases, RESTful services, Linux tools, scripting.
Familiarity with Continuous Integration (CI) and Continuous Delivery (CD) software and processes for web.
Skilled at communicating technical issues with non-technical audience.
Hands-on experience in machine learning and predictive analytics is a plus.
DescriptionWe are looking for a self-motivated engineer who can be responsible for the development and design of web applications and components and Swift based applications. Design, code, test, and implement rich web applications that support our supply chain business. You should have experience in architecting and implementing scalable APIs, designing database schema and managing the server software stack. As this team prides itself in embracing emerging technologies, you should have the ability to research, recommend and apply the most appropriate technology for the task. Working In collaboration with our business teams and technical partners, this role will work to actively improve the usability, efficiency, and overall effectiveness of our global Supply Chain teams through innovative software solutions.
Analyze complex business processes to be solved with automated systems that can scale to enterprise level requirements; serve as software architect for design, development, and management.
Distill business needs into software features through in-depth conversations with non-technical users and leadership.
Develop user-friendly and intuitive web applications. Quickly prototype new ideas for business validation, usability testing, and production-ready code.
Write clean, modular, robust code without supervision in a dynamic, iterative, and multi-release environment. Introduce automation into build processes.
Take lead on building strong relationships within Apple, structuring valuable discussions around user experience/challenges and turning insights into solutions.

Join the team that is revolutionizing the watch! As a software engineer on the Apple Watch team, you will be responsible for building extraordinary applications and frameworks on a brand new platform. You’ll work closely with the UI design and QA teams to develop interactions of superior quality that will ship to millions of users.

Key Qualifications
You have excellent Cocoa and Objective-C coding ability
You have experience with C/C++
Consistent record of completing projects on-time and to specification
You have experience optimizing applications and profiling throughout the stack
Experience contributing to at least one application or framework
Systems knowledge, hands-on experience with inter-process communication
You are upbeat, adaptable, and results oriented with a positive attitude
You have excellent communication and collaborative skills
Fantastic attention to detail
These Include

DescriptionAs a member of the team you will have many responsibilities relating to the design, development, and testing of the device software.
We collaborate closely with the design team to open up the boundaries on human- computer interactions.
We craft solutions tailored to the constraints of the software and the hardware of a small, low power device.
We work closely with the iOS Apps, iOS Frameworks and Hardware teams to craft robust and maintainable systems that will stand the test of time.
We coordinate with the quality assurance teams to ensure full test coverage as well as to initiate focused testing on critical components.

We are looking for an experienced software engineer to join our team and help develop the media engine for our products and services. In this role, you will be responsible for crafting and implementing APIs in the media playback, editing, streaming and export areas. You will meet the challenge of improving the performance and software quality for our cross-platform media frameworks. And you will work closely with the software application teams to deliver captivating features that will be enjoyed by millions of users around the world.

Key Qualifications
6+ years experience working as part of a software development team
3+ years software development experience on Linux platform and broad knowledge of Linux APIs
Strong programming skills in C;
good working knowledge of C++ preferred
Excellent skills in software development and debugging in a highly concurrent environment
Object-oriented design and programming skills
Experience working on media container formats, video codecs and/or video playback engines
Excellent communication and reciprocal skills
DescriptionThe Interactive Media Group (IMG) provides the media and graphics foundation across all of Apple's innovative products, including iPhone, HomePod, AppleTV, Apple Watch, iPad, Macs as well as professional and consumer applications from Final Cut to Music, TV and iWork. IMG takes the media experience to the next level on the iOS, tvOS, watchOS and macOS platforms with technologies such as AVFoundation, CoreMedia, CoreAudio,CoreAnimation, and Metal. The AVFoundation team within IMG is responsible for implementing software services around linear audiovisual media. This includes local media playback, video-on-demand and live streaming of multimedia content. Our media engine is used across Apple products such as the Safari, Photos, Music, TV apps on iOS and macOS. Additionally, hundreds of thousands of 3rd party applications utilize the AVFoundation framework to bring time-based visual media services to millions of customers on Apple's platforms.

Education & ExperienceBS/MS EE/CS/CE OR EQUIVALENT

Additional RequirementsDesired Experience: Experience in designing and maintaining an API for multiple clients is desired Experience in cross-platform S/W development is a plus Experience using the CoreFoundation, AVFoundation or VideoToolbox framework is a plus Experience in video processing (e.g. color conversion/correction, filtering) is a plus You have

eeking a strong C or C++ developer with a background in networking. You will work on the HTTP network protocol implementation and API used by 1st and 3rd party apps and services. Our code runs on Apple products which use iOS, iPadOS, macOS, watchOS, and tvOS. URLSession API supports HTTP/1.1, HTTP/2, and newer HTTP and related technologies via Objective-C and Swift interfaces. Besides networking, your peers are fluent in run-time and memory performance optimization, multithreaded programming, cross-layer design, and many other concepts common to general software and OS development. URLSession is implemented in CFNetwork.framework in the Internet Frameworks department. You will frequently be working inside the team, other teams which belong to Internet Frameworks (WebKit, Network.framework, and APNS, iMessage, and FaceTime network services), iCloud, App Store, Music and iTunes, Watch, Enterprise teams, and many others. The team resides at Apple Park.

Key Qualifications
Excellent analytical, programming (C or C++), and debugging skills and strong proficiency in multi-threaded development
Familiarity or proficiency with any of Cocoa, Swift, Objective-C, iOS/macOS, or cross-platform development
In-depth knowledge of one or more areas in networking — the team will give you a running start in the areas you will be responsible for, but you should be able to learn quickly, and both work independently and collaborate with others as the situation requires
Strong understanding of one or more elements of HTTP networking (protocol-level details, cookies, authentication, cache, security, and performance), or ability to come up to speed before interview
Excellent communication and collaboration skills
DescriptionWe are seeking a talented software engineer to help us to both create and maintain next-generation technologies for Apple's mobile, desktop, wearable, and services platforms. We need a creative engineer with experience developing high-quality products on schedule, strong communication and collaboration skills, and a passion for innovation. In this role you will be responsible for designing and implementing new features, as well as essential work maintaining existing software libraries.

Education & ExperienceB.S. or M.S. in Computer Science or equivalent
Take time to think about where you are going or where you've been! With the help of our team, Apple Maps provides an incredible sense of direction. Join our team and help millions of developers bring to bear amazing solutions based on our exceptionally rich location data.

Our team is seeking a software developer with validated engineering skills create and innovate the next generation Maps experience on iOS, macOS, tvOS and watchOS while coordinating and mentoring junior engineers.

Key Qualifications
Strong object-oriented programming and design skills
3+ years of experience in a production environment
Validated experience with engineering concepts such as concurrency, threading, memory management, embedded software constraints, and performance analysis
Translation of complex functional and technical requirements into detailed architecture and design.
Experience with version-control software (for example: GIT/CVS/Perforce)
You have previously shipped code into production
DescriptionDo you want to help shape the future of Mapping Frameworks for Apple? Are you looking to contribute to the foundation at the core of the positioning-based experiences found on iPhone, iPad, WATCH, and TV? As a client engineer working on our Navigation team, your primary responsibility will be to continue to build and open up the boundaries of our navigation experience.

For instance, our team developed the framework which drove the real-time transit feature that empowers Global Maps. You'll be working closely with the Maps Client & Server teams along with many other authorities at Apple to innovate and produce a best-in-class guidance experience. To meet these demands, you’ll demonstrate your system-level knowledge to craft beautiful architectures.

Maps frameworks are supported on multiple platforms (iOS, macOS, watchOS, and tvOS), so understanding and developing shared codebases between different operating systems is a plus.

As a member of our team, your daily activities may include:

Partnering with other Apple teams to iterate, innovate, and investigate new ways of presenting data to our external App developer community

Using your expert knowledge of systems and frameworks to ensure our system is scalable and useable for many different platforms

Mentoring other team members related to system-level standard methodologies such as memory management, object-oriented design, and production level code.

Demonstrating your current programming knowledge to create, write and lead all aspects of clean, concise, and accurate Objective-C based code.

Education & ExperienceBS or MS in Computer Science or equivalent

Do you have a passion for building the best photo app experience in the world?
iPhone is the most popular camera in the world. Seamless integration of software and hardware has delivered magical experiences like Photos Memories and Portrait Mode. The Camera & Photos team leverages privacy-respecting machine learning technologies to ship emotional experiences to hundreds of millions of users worldwide.

We are looking for an exceptional software engineer to develop innovative applications and infrastructure for the next generation of deeply personal products we deliver. If you thrive on problems at the intersection of algorithms, applied machine learning, and backend engineering this position will excite and inspire you.

Key Qualifications
- Excellent analytical, problem solving, and communication skills - Experience with Apple system level APIs and frameworks
- Objective-C / Swift
- Asynchronous programming
- Excellent algorithmic background
- Applied Artificial Intelligence savvy (Data Mining / Machine Learning) - Knowledge Graph experience desirable
- Ability and desire to learn new skills and take on new tasks
DescriptionThe Role Includes But Is Not Limited To
Analyzing, researching, and evaluating algorithmic models for Photos features related to Photos For You, Memories, Search, and People.
Prototyping, designing, developing, and shipping new personalized experiences.
Working cross-functionally to connect knowledge across the platform and create intelligent customer-facing features.
Performing quality assurance and testing of the developed routines and applications.
Education & ExperienceB.S. / M.S in Computer Science or equivalent experience

Join a new team that is delivering new capabilities for Siri that will transform the way people engage with the world around them! We’re looking for strong engineers to work on cutting-edge technology, collaborate with experts across the Siri stack, and deliver new end-to-end experiences that delight customers.

Key Qualifications
Solid understanding of computer science fundamentals: data structures, algorithms, OOP.
Ability to write clean and maintainable code.
iOS development experience preferred.
Experience designing and developing build or test environments preferred.
Full stack experience preferred.
3+ years of industry experience in software development preferred.
DescriptionWe are looking for engineers who are passionate about building tools and infrastructure that help engineering teams successfully build and test software at scale. In this role, you will be working in a fast-paced environment with rapidly changing priorities and dealing with a lot of ambiguity. You will have a direct impact on the productivity and success of other engineers across the organization by developing scalable infrastructure for building and testing software. You will be driving technical decisions relating to how we design and develop our build, test and continuous integration environments. If you are looking for a role that is challenging, impactful and has growth opportunities, this role is for you.

Education & ExperienceBachelor’s degree in Computer Science or related field preferred.

As part of the WiFi software development team, we make decisions that influence the connectivity experience on products people use every single day, across the world. Are you a software development enthusiast? Are you passionate about internet-enabled devices and networking protocols? Do you want to learn more about WiFi and other wireless technologies? If your answer is yes, we may have the job for you.

Key Qualifications
BA/BS in Computer Engineering, Computer Science, or equivalent experience.
Solid knowledge of data structures and their applications
Experience developing software using C/C+, Objective-C, or Java
Strong competence and experience in Layer 2, Layer 3 networking, QoS
Strong analytical and problem-solving skills.
Excellent analytical, programming and debugging skills
Thrive in a collaborative environment and can clearly communicate while driving multiple projects across teams
Obsessively passionate and inquisitive, and seek to tackle everyday problems in innovative ways
Preferred Qualifications:
Knowledge and experience of different LAN and WAN technologies
Knowledge of IEEE 802.11/WiFi Protocols.
Experience developing software using embedded SDKs, frameworks and/or BSPs.
Linux / Unix kernel networking stack knowledge and understanding of operating system fundamentals.
Solid understanding of OO design principles and design patterns.
Experience with hands-on development and troubleshooting on embedded targets. e.g., GDB, shell scripting, packet tracing (tcpdump, wireshark)
DescriptionAs WiFi team member, you'll be responsible for designing, developing and optimizing WiFi networking subsystem software across Apple products including iPhone, Mac, Apple Watch and Apple TV.

Changing the world is all in a day's work at Apple. If you love innovation, here's your chance to build a career. We invite you to join our mission in building and redefining App Store/Music/Movies/TV Shows/Books. Apple is critically invested in the success of its mobile ecosystem. App Store/Music/Movies/TV Shows/Books is a core asset that is at the crux of this ecosystem. Our team operates at the intersection of building highly scalable applications, analytics to understand data content and big data machine learning to improve the quality of the ecosystem.

Be ready to make something great when you come here. Dynamic, inspiring people and innovative, industry-defining technologies are the norm at Apple. The people who work here have reinvented and defined entire industries with our products and services. The same passion for innovation also applies to our business practices - strengthening our commitment to leave the world better than we found it. You should join the Apple data platform team if you want to help deliver the next amazing Apple product.

Key Qualifications
Expertise and experience in various facets of machine learning, such as computer vision, classification, feature engineering, information extraction, clustering, semi-supervised learning, topic modeling and ranking.
Practical understanding of the mathematics behind modern machine learning, linear algebra and statistics.
Do you have Strong publication in machine learning/deep learning/computer vision?
Knowledge and experience with popular deep learning frameworks (e.g. Tensorflow, Pytorch) desired.
Strong programming and debugging skills in: Java and either Python or C/C++ or equivalent.
Good knowledge of big data processing, prior experience with Hadoop, Spark, Cassandra is preferred.
Excellent writing and interpersonal skills.
Attention to detail, data accuracy and quality of output.
You are upbeat, adaptable, and results oriented with a positive attitude.
You bring passion and dedication to your job and are committed to our vision.
DescriptionAbility to work in a fast-paced dynamic environment.
Analyze, design, code, inspect, debug, and test features for the data platform.
Maintain and improve existing applications in response to new feature requests.
Collaborate closely with members of other teams throughout the release cycle.
Apple Media Products (AMP) first delighted users with downloadable music in April 2003 with the opening of the iTunes Store. Since then, AMP has delivered countless innovations around the digital delivery of audio and video, and in 2008 revolutionized smartphone app distribution with the launch of the App Store. Being the source for so much digital content requires maintaining relationships with a vast number of providers, from record labels to movie studios to app developers. The Digital Supply Chain Engineering team (DSCE) is responsible for ensuring that new content is uploaded, processed, cataloged, and available on our storefronts when the provider expects it to be, and with the highest quality. Apple is looking for a forward thinking self-starter to join the App Ingest team. This is a hands-on engineering role on the team whose software validates, ingests, thins and performs other processing of apps to the App Store. There are very few teams that have the breadth of involvement in Apple's product pipeline across the board as that exercised by this team.

Key Qualifications
Required:
Expertise in Object Oriented Design and Programming
Deep knowledge of Swift or other object oriented language
Strong written and oral communication skills
Strong problem solver
At least 5 years hands-on experience with the following:
Building application server components and services
Designing and implementing secure REST APIs
Schema design for a high-performance database like Cassandra
JSON and Protobuf serialization
Preferred:
Experience deploying software on elastic platforms such as Kubernetes, EC2, Mesos, etc.
Knowledge and experience with Swift on the server
DescriptionYou will participate in designing and implementing logic for ingesting apps that demonstrate new features in future devices and upcoming versions of iOS, tvOS and macOS. You will implement functionality that analyzes apps on ingest, extracting and storing information displayed on the App Store, and used in the App Store’s review and curation processes. You will implement enhancements and improvements to the workflow by which apps are thinned, encrypted, signed, and otherwise processed for distribution to TestFlight and the App Store.

re you a big-picture thinker who loves setting ambitious goals? Do you have a passion for understanding how each line of code affects all the others? In the Core Operating Systems group, you’ll ensure the OS is inseparable from each device’s identity as a whole. That’s because this group is committed to building fully integrated operating systems that combine hardware, software, and apps into a single Apple experience. Your dedication to cross-disciplinary collaboration will help develop groundbreaking technologies, such as iOS, macOS, watchOS, and tvOS. By crafting these distinct, holistic user experiences, you’ll continue to uphold and advance the excellence people expect from Apple devices.

The Core OS organization is seeking an extraordinary engineer to work on state-of-the art technology for macOS, iOS, tvOS and watchOS. You should have a strong understanding of operating system fundamentals and experience working throughout the stack. As a member of the team, you would participate in all stages of software development, from new feature design and implementation, to maintenance and bug fixing of released code. You will develop and improve unit tests and performance tests, and may also work on diagnosing and resolving customer reported issues.

Key Qualifications
Expert level C, exposure to Objective-C
Experience with daemon and library development
Creative, critical thinking and troubleshooting skills
Excellent collaborative skills
Exceptional professionalism, with the ability to deliver solid work on tight schedules
Excellent written and verbal communication
A genuine passion for consumer devices
DescriptionYou will primarily be responsible for daemons and frameworks that support functionality throughout the system. Previous experience with writing or maintaining daemons, libraries and command line tools on a UNIX platform is key. You should have excellent analytical skills and debugging experience. In addition to developing and maintaining individual projects, you will also be expected to provide design guidance and technical support and expertise to teams across the company.
Open to recent/new grads with strong experience in Python/Java and Angular/React Development who have a degree in Aerospace or have done projects in that field - looking for strong front end developement*


Job Description:

· Develop software, primarily GUIs, to support the mission planning workflow

· Programmatically resolve problems of diverse scope

· Develop code related to software monitoring and alerting

· Understand business rationale and results impact for software designs

· Understand existing code base and drive necessary improvements

· Provide support of the ground system software

· Other duties as assigned


Basic Qualifications:

· Minimum of 3 years of experience in Python or Java Programming

· Demonstrated proficiency in Angular, or other responsive web development framework

· Experience designing, coding, debugging and analyzing software products

· Proven experience in in designing and coding in complex software environments

· Experience with Unix/Linux

· BS in Computer Science, Engineering, or related field

· Currently hold or able to obtain a US DoD security Clearance

Are you ready to re-invent the world of subscription boxes? Are you looking for an opportunity to define how customers discover exciting new products at Amazon? Join Product Replenishment team to help us build the next generation subscription/discovery box experience for our sellers and customers. Subscription box business is $5 Bn opportunity across hundreds of new sellers outside Amazon and existing 800+ Marketplace sellers who have an eligible subscription product. Our goal is bring new selection to our 270MM+ customers including fun ways for them to discover new products through curation algorithms that we would build based on customer preferences. As part of this initiative, you will be working on building end to end customer experience - discovery, purchase and managing their subscription box delivery and end to end seller experience - tools to support on boarding, product management and curation, inventory management and analytics and reporting. You will have an opportunity to delight our customers and contribute to the Amazon fly-wheel for single item sales.
The Software Development Engineer (SDE) experience is a unique one at Amazon. Teams are structured in small groups with a strong impetus to innovate, drive end to end ownership and meet critical business goals. Fresh college graduates get to rub shoulders with outstanding software engineers and researchers with industry leading technical abilities, solving challenging engineering problems that affect millions of Amazon customers. Engineers also get to collaborate and work with teams across the globe, in the process being exposed to a range of technologies, best practices and solution patterns. Our brown bag sessions and Principal talks are among the most popular presentations with healthy debate and a cross pollination of ideas. All this contributes to the grooming of the ‘fungible’ Amazon engineer who has exemplary technical skills, sharp business acumen and a strong drive to get things done.


Basic Qualifications
Bachelor's degree in Computer Science, Computer Engineering or related technical discipline
Excellent programming skills in either C, C++ or Java
Strong fundamentals in core Computer Science areas like Data Structures and Algorithms.
Preferred Qualifications
Quickly adapt to new development environments and changing business requirements
Learn new systems
Create reliable/maintainable code, and find creative and scalable solutions to difficult problems
The ability to communicate clearly and concisely both written and orally is a key competency as is demonstrable skill as a self-starter

We are a data platform for microbial genomics. You'll join a technical, experienced (and profitable!) team working on meaningful problems that range from infectious disease diagnostics to outbreak epidemiology to improving our understanding of the microbiome. We work with top researchers, medical institutions, biotechs, and have processed samples from all 7 continents and space!


Required Skills: Javascript, HTML, CSS, React, Vue, Rust, Python, Flask, GraphQL, D3


Job Description: 

We're currently looking for generalist engineers, including both those who are backend- and frontend-leaning.
Remote work can be considered with previous experience.

General Requirements: 

3+ years of experience and effective across both sides of a web stack (we use Python on the backend and React on the frontend) 
You communicate well and work effectively with others 
You are comfortable with a high degree of freedom and commensurate responsibility

Nice to haves: 

You have a passion for (or are interested in learning about) biology!


Responsibilities: 

On the backend, our stack consists of Python microservices (Flask) and lower-level bioinformatics code (increasingly in Rust). 
Our frontend is built with React.

Benefits:

We are based in San Francisco, and offer a competitive salary, meaningful above-market equity, and the chance to be an early employee in a well-positioned startup. Benefits include full medical, dental, and vision coverage, a flexible vacation policy and relocation assistance if moving to the Bay Area. We're also willing to sponsor a visa for the right candidate.


Who We Are

Our mission is to make this ever-expanding universe of social media data available via a consistent and reliable architecture so the world can realize the full potential of this amazing stream of information. If you're interested in building products that customers use daily to make key business decisions, resolve their own customers’ concerns, and drive groundbreaking research, read on.

Our software collects, processes, enriches and delivers hundreds of billions of activities a day through a wide variety of social media APIs. Our products are highly available, scalable, optimized, respectful of Twitter's user base, and truly essential for our customers who build their businesses on Twitter data. We work closely with our product managers and customers to make sure we build the right products at the right time.

DES Products Include

Real time streaming access to Twitter data

Historical and sync access to archived Twitter data

Enrichments on Twitter objects derived from the latest machine learning technologies

Flexible access to aggregate data

End to end developer experience

What You’ll Do

If this sounds like a team you want to be a part of, great! We are looking for an engineer who loves writing code, has a strong desire to learn new technologies, and wants to collaborate with teammates who are committed to serving their customers. More specifically, you will
Collaborate with product managers, designers, and engineers across the company
Craft elegant solutions to solve problems and fix bugs
Help drive the direction of our growing architecture

Who You Are
You're smart and you love to build systems with purpose that are well tested and flexible.
You wish to tackle hard product and engineering challenges while working alongside smart people.
You're excited to ramp up on new technologies to build awesome things with us!
You have a disciplined approach to writing unit and integration tests
You have an ability to take on complex problems, learn quickly, and persist towards a good solution
You want to help architect APIs that work with tremendous scale and make it easy for customers to generate insights about their business.
You have experience working with big data processing (Hadoop, Storm, Scalding, Kafka etc) and NoSQL databases.
﻿

Requirements
MS or BS in Computer Science
3+ years of industry or equivalent programming experience
Understanding of core CS concepts, such as, common data structures and algorithms

We are committed to an inclusive and diverse Twitter. Twitter is an equal opportunity employer. We do not discriminate based on race, ethnicity, color, ancestry, national origin, religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, age, disability, veteran status, genetic information, marital status or any other legally protected status.
By applying for this role, you could choose to work in the following locations:
San Francisco
Boulder

Send InMail
UES, Inc. has an opportunity available for a Software Engineer to join our team working at Wright Patterson Air Force Base in Dayton, OH.

The Software Engineer will be an active and collaborative member of the ICMSE (Integrated Computational Materials Science and Engineering) Systems Development team within the Materials and Manufacturing Directorate of the Air Force Research Laboratory. The Software Engineer will primarily be responsible for developing or implementing source code for use in a variety of modern client and server-based software environments, developed within API-first design patterns, using application frameworks (Django, Flask, etc.) paired with multi-model content stores (object stores, NoSQL, etc.). Secondary duties involve designing and exploring novel technology solutions and collaborating with other team members to arrive at an agreed upon development strategy. The Software Engineer should be an independent and self-starting contributor who can take direction from a senior level developer, be able to work for extended periods (a week or longer) without regular guidance from other functions and should also understand and work efficiently within a formal Software Development Lifecycle (SDLC).

 

Requirements:

BS or MS in Computer Science, related field of study, or equivalent work experience is required
Minimum 3 years of experience developing full-stack web applications that implement MVC, MTV, or equivalent design patterns
Significant experience working with other developers and analysts in a SDLC-based team environment
Experience using git-based source code repositories
Demonstrable skills in problem solving and technology risk analysis
Demonstrable skills in oral and written communication
This position is working within a government facility and requires U.S. Citizenship
 

Additional Skills and Experience Preferred:

Experience implementing or integrating JavaScript functionality or applications (React, Vue, etc.).
Experience programming web applications using Python or Python MVC (Django or Flask).
Experience with unit testing.
Training/Experience in SQL technology.
Training/Experience in NoSQL technology.
 

Additional Information

UES, Inc. is an innovative science and technology company providing customers with superior research and development expertise since its inception in 1973. Our long-term success is a direct result of a strong commitment to the success of our employees. We look forward to reviewing your application.

UES, Inc. is committed to hiring and retaining a diverse workforce. We are proud to be an Equal Opportunity/Affirmative Action Employer, making decisions without regard to race, color, religion, creed, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, marital status, national origin, age, veteran status, disability, or any other protected class. U.S. Citizenship is required for most positions.


As a Software Engineer, you will focus on engineering beautiful and user interfaces and interactions. You will use your deep UI engineering and creative skills to take an influential role in iterating and continuously deploying new features, functionality, and products to our customers. You will be an important part of a lean DevOps and automation culture where we’ll be looking for you to collaborate with the backend and product teams to influence UI architecture, champion UI code quality, and to build optimized experiences for our end-teams to influence UI architecture, champion UI code quality, and to build optimized experiences for our end-users. We want someone that has grown up through the web software development ranks - possessing 3-5 years’ experience in building highly scalable and performant web applications while doing highly creative, detail oriented front-end web development.

The candidate must be fluent in ES6+ JavaScript, while also combining expertise with modern reactive JavaScript libraries, tools, and runtimes to engineer abstract, secure, reusable, and testable UI components and applications. This person should also have home-grown Design System experience, having collaborated tightly with creative teams to champion and influence component reusability, maintainability, and configurability across a diverse UI portfolio. The right person should also blend his/her engineering abilities with a sense of pixel-perfect craftsmanship, turning user stories, wireframes, and prototypes into fully functional UI components and applications.

While The Walt Disney Company is a large company, ideally, we’d like if you have some previous experience in a U.S. startup environment and be comfortable performing multiple roles. We strive to get things done quickly, at high quality, and we are committed to the agile methodology. Our work is guided by lean principles (looking at value and looking for waste; not doing anything ‘for the sake of doing it’). We’re looking for a passionate, impactful, technical leader who wants to come here to do their very best work and make their mark, add their chapter to the long and storied history of The Walt Disney Company. Someone who holds themselves and their teammates accountable in a professional, collaborative manner. A collaborative technologist who seeks to bring the best out in themselves and those around them. Someone who can provide a fresh perspective and innovative insight to our initiatives.

Responsibilities
Take a high ownership, self-sufficient, hands-on position on the team—be relentless in upholding engineering quality and maintaining application stability
Collaborate with engineering leads to build cloud native and service-oriented UI components and applications.
Collaborate with team and peers to build complex applications, peer review code, and suggest optimization.
Enable continuous deployment by championing quality engineering practices: linting, unit testing, web UI testing, pipeline automation.
Reason logically and creatively, identifying problems, drawing valid conclusions from the data available, and develop effective solutions while applying creative thinking in the design and development of high performing web applications
Collaborate with and influence product teams to build and maintain design system standards, processes, and adoption.
Check-in valuable, clean code on a daily basis that adds new features and capabilities
Collaborate with engineering leads to help define engineering best practices
Investigate and resolve any production issues from end user (UI) to persistence layer and work to prevent them
Work with project managers to ensure that all project deliverables are on time and high quality
Assist in rapid prototyping of design concepts in order to prove and test ideas with end-users

Basic Qualifications
Minimum of 3 years of experience in web application development or software engineering in a large enterprise environment using modern frameworks
Expertise with JavaScript ES6+, native DOM interfaces, WebSocket protocol, REST/SOA patterns.
Expertise with reactive programming using a best of breed UI stack: React/Reactive Native, Redux, TypeScript, SCSS, Jest, Enzyme, Selenium/Nightwatch, SauceLabs, Webpack, Babel, Node/Express, oAuth 2.0/JWT
Track record of championing quality engineering: be adamant that all UI code is written in a way that can be tested both with unit tests and automated UI tests
Strong understanding of (and be opinionated about) browsers, devices, OS, and other user agent interoperability and compatibility concerns
Hands on DevOps experience with AWS, GitLab CI/D pipelines, Docker, Kubernettes/Helm
Experience working with high-performing teams using Agile and Lean methodologies and frameworks
Be a perfectionist who makes sure every pixel is in the right place
Excellent verbal and written communication skills
Care about your craft and have opinions about the “right” way to do things with technology

Preferred Qualifications
Previous work experience in media production, broadcast and/or distribution
Experience working with vendor teams to deliver high quality results
Strong curiosity about how Disney delivers the Magic and a desire to be a part of it

Required Education
Bachelor’s degree in Computer Science, Computer Information Systems, Engineering, or another technical field

Preferred Education
Master's degree in Computer Science, Software Engineering or related technical discipline is highly desirable

About Disney Streaming Services

Disney Streaming Services is responsible for developing and operating The Walt Disney Company’s direct-to-consumer video businesses globally, including the ESPN+ premium sports streaming service; Disney+, the dedicated streaming home for entertainment from Disney, Pixar, Marvel, Star Wars, National Geographic and BAMTECH Media, a global leader in direct-to-consumer video streaming products and solutions. Our core mission is to deliver global audiences the freedom to access content on their terms across any connected device, time or location. We serve consumers by bringing the world’s most beloved characters, timeless stories, 

Imagine what you could do here. At Apple, phenomenal ideas have a way of becoming great products, services, and customer experiences very quickly. Bring passion and dedication to your job and there's no telling what you could accomplish.

Key Qualifications

A successful track-record and proven experience as a backend internet services software developer.
Proven aptitude for building, launching and operating very large-scale production internet services.
Description

We are building, and supporting new, critical infrastructural systems and frameworks which provide and support services like structured and unstructured storage, caching, queueing, searching, and much more. These form the platform upon which many iCloud and other backend systems at Apple are built.

The team is responsible for the next generation platform that will power Apple’s infrastructural services. These services have huge scale and store hundreds of petabytes of data. The platform will support a variety of services based on open-source software, such as Apache Cassandra, SOLR, Zookeeper, Kafka, Redis, etc.

We are looking for a strong, enthusiastic developer to join as a member of this group. This person will have a tremendous amount of individual responsibility and influence over the direction the backend of many critical Apple internet services take for years to come. You are someone with ideas and real passion for software delivered as a service to improve reuse, efficiency, and simplicity. This engineer’s work will affect hundreds of millions of users and be essential to the success of some of the most visible current and future Apple features.

Education & ExperienceBS or MS in Computer Science or equivalent work experience.

The worldwide pioneer in the creation of interactive entertainment, Nintendo Co., Ltd., of Kyoto, Japan, manufactures and markets hardware and software for its Nintendo Switch™ system and the Nintendo 3DS™ family of portable systems. Since 1983, when it launched the Nintendo Entertainment System™, Nintendo has sold more than 4.7 billion video games and more than 740 million hardware units globally, including Nintendo Switch and the Nintendo 3DS family of systems, as well as the Game Boy™, Game Boy Advance, Nintendo DS™ family of systems, Super NES™, Nintendo 64™, Nintendo GameCube™, Wii™ and Wii U™ systems. It has also created industry icons that have become well-known, household names, such as Mario, Donkey Kong, Metroid, Zelda and Pokémon. A wholly owned subsidiary, Nintendo of America Inc., based in Redmond, Wash., serves as headquarters for Nintendo’s operations in the Americas. For more information about Nintendo, please visit the company’s website at http://www.nintendo.com.

Description Of Duties
Design and deploy enhanced process and technology solutions, supporting the operational requirements and/or strategic initiatives.
Develops technical specifications and configuration of applications and integrations.
Defines the functional and technical needs of an organization and recommend solutions.
Assesses available technologies to meet needs, and then define technical specifications and designs.
Develops and modifies technology systems, addressing functional, performance, security, quality, operations and monitoring needs.
Creates detailed test scenarios, performs testing and analyzes results.
Identify, troubleshoot and resolve application systems issues
Documents all technology changes through appropriate change control.
Requires staying current on engineering approaches, technologies and techniques.
Ensures work is completed in such a way to comply with established JSOX and other internal controls
Mentors and assists Associate Software Engineers
Provides support and troubleshooting of prior developed technology solutions.
Provides on-call support as needed.

Summary Of Requirements
Minimum of 3 years of experience and up to 5 years of related field experience in various software development technologies, patterns and practices.
Proven experience in handling complex systems/processes where analysis of situations or data requires in-depth evaluation of variable factors.
Full understanding of software development practices
BacheloAs an experienced member of our Software Engineering Group we look first and foremost for people who are passionate around solving business problems through innovation & engineering practices. You will be required to apply your depth of knowledge and expertise to all aspects of the software development lifecycle, as well as partner continuously with your many stakeholders on a daily basis to stay focused on common goals. We embrace a culture of experimentation and constantly strive for improvement and learning. You’ll work in a collaborative, trusting, thought-provoking environment—one that encourages diversity of thought and creative solutions that are in the best interests of our customers globally.

The Treasury/Chief Investment Office (T/CIO) Interest Rate Risk technology team is looking for a Software Engineer with experience in developing enterprise platforms leveraging Python, Big Data and Business Intelligence technologies. As a Software Engineer you will be a key contributor on an agile and test driven development team, focused on building high quality, distributed and scalable software platforms and API’s supporting Interest Rate Risk management functions, including the risk evaluation of trades and positions, orchestration of financial models & risk metrics, scenario simulations, financial forecasting, data science & analytics, business intelligence & reporting functions.

This role requires a wide variety of strengths and capabilities, including:

BS/BA degree or equivalent experience
Advanced knowledge of application, data and infrastructure architecture disciplines
Understanding of architecture and design across all systems
Working proficiency in developmental toolsets
Ability to collaborate with high-performing teams and individuals throughout the firm to accomplish common goals
Feature development and delivery throughout the SDLC lifecycle, from business analysis, design, development, testing and deployment of software solutions
Design and development of solutions to continuously enhance the firm’s business processes, enhance controls and deliver new capabilities for managing interest rate risk
Continuously learn from and partner with technology management & business users to identify opportunities to incrementally deliver business value thru Technology
Contribute towards the evolution of software platforms with creative ideas and innovative technical solutions. Actively participate in the agile planning and delivery of software-based solution
Partner with multiple technology teams to deliver integrated solutions leveraging best in class technologies
Aggregating and managing the interest rate risk of the firm’s four main lines of business (LOBs), primarily through the global investment securities portfolio. Managing the firm’s funding and liabilities through long-term debt and other funding sources, and managing the short term cash deployment activities
Aggregating and managing the firm’s liquidity risk, including deploying the firm's excess liquidity. Also responsible for compliance with both internal and regulatory liquidity requirements. Aggregating and managing the firm’s structural foreign exchange risk
Risk managing Mortgage Servicing Rights on behalf of the Mortgage Bank. Managing the company-sponsored retirement plan
Proficiency with experience in developing enterprise platforms leveraging Python, Big Data (e.g. Hadoop & Spark) and Business Intelligence (e.g., Tableau) technologies
3+ years of experience developing enterprise platforms in Python
Strong Object Oriented Programming skills (in either Python, Scala or Java)
Familiar with agile development methodologies (e.g., Scrum)
Experience with Test Driven Development
Familiar with SDLC tools such as Jenkins, Git, JIRA, etc.
Experience building scalable and flexible software frameworks, platforms and API’s

Our Corporate Technology team relies on smart, driven people like you to develop applications and provide tech support for all our corporate functions across our network. Your efforts will touch lives all over the financial spectrum and across all our divisions: Global Finance, Corporate Treasury, Risk Management, Human Resources, Compliance, Legal, and within the Corporate Administrative Office. You’ll be part of a team specifically built to meet and exceed our evolving technology needs, as well as our technology controls agenda.

When you work at JPMorgan Chase & Co., you’re not just working at a global financial institution. You’re an integral part of one of the world’s biggest tech companies. In 20 technology centers worldwide, our team of 50,000 technologists design, build and deploy everything from enterprise technology initiatives to big data and mobile solutions, as well as innovations in electronic payments, cybersecurity, machine learning, and cloud development. Our $10B+ annual investment in technology enables us to hire people to create innovative solutions that will are transforming the financial services industry.

At JPMorgan Chase & Co. we value the unique skills of every employee, and we’re building a technology organization that thrives on diversity. We encourage professional growth and career development, and offer competitive benefits and compensation. If you’re looking to build your career as part of a global technology team tackling big challenges that impact the lives of people and companies all around the world, we want to meet you.

r of Science degree in Computer Science/Engineering, Electrical Engineering, Information Technology, or related field; or equivalent combination of education and experience.

We are creating a flexible, extensible Notifications System that operates at scale. The system supports sending notifications via mobile push (Apple, Google/Android), SMS, email, and X1 (the Comcast TV “operating system”). We currently send hundreds of thousands of messages every day to notify users of sporting events that involve their favorite teams. Future use cases will include notifications for Olympics events, notifications to let users know when their favorite movies become available to buy or rent and when they become cheaper or free. The team is a small, tight-knit group that works out of our Sunnyvale, CA office. We’re looking for a highly skilled software engineer to join us in designing, developing, and operating this Notifications System. The ideal candidate is someone who wants to make an impact and own large portions of the code and system, and help us conceive, architect, design, and build new features and functionality and support new use cases while helping operate our production system.

We’re serious about our work but don’t take life too seriously. Come join us.

Employees At All Levels Are Expect To
Understand our Operating Principles; make them the guidelines for how you do your job
Own the customer experience - think and act in ways that put our customers first, give them seamless digital options at every touchpoint, and make them promoters of our products and services
Know your stuff - be enthusiastic learners, users and advocates of our game-changing technology, products and services, especially our digital tools and experiences
Win as a team - make big things happen by working together and being open to new ideas
Be an active part of the Net Promoter System - a way of working that brings more employee and customer feedback into the company - by joining huddles, making call backs and helping us elevate opportunities to do better for our customers
Drive results and growth
Respect and promote inclusion and diversity
Do what's right for each other, our customers, investors and our communities
Be smart and gets things done
Write well-designed, readable, testable, stable, appropriately abstracted code
Have solid communication skills, both oral and written
Lead problem solving and resolution of any day-to-day architecture, design, code, testing, or operational issues
Have the ability to write design proposals for any significant changes or new work and to review with the team and achieve consensus
Have the ability to understand and communicate the operational feasibility and important considerations for all new features and changes
Have the ability and willingness to participate in a process to continually improve the processes and performance of the team

Required Technical Skills
Experience with NodeJS
Experience with Express or similar NodeJS middleware
Experience with AWS Aurora, MySQL, or similar database
Experience with Redis or similar NoSQL database
Experience with AWS, especially EC2, CloudFormation, CloudWatch, SQS, Lambda
Experience developing, testing, and deploying APIs
Experience building systems based on a micro services architecture
Experience with Docker

Core Responsibilities
Designs and implements the platform supporting multiple tenants and multiple applications developed on top of the platform.
Achieves reliability and performance in delivering notifications to hundreds of thousands of users about their subject of interest.
Owns the whole development workflow of multiple services/components of the platform.
Designs forward looking APIs for mobile clients.
Deploys, runs and manages a multi-service platform for user notifications in AWS Cloud.
Designs and develops a data-driven application development platform.
Designs, optimizes and manages polyglot persistence for the platform.
Develops and optimizes asynchronous message processing in a data pipeline serving notifications delivery.
Implements creative ideas to help build the applications on the platform and help improve the platform - Collaborates with project stakeholders to identify product and technical requirements. Conducts analysis to determine integration needs.
Designs new software and web applications, supports applications under development, and customizes current applications. Assists with the software update process for existing applications, and roll-outs of software releases.
Participates in training representatives and operations staff on internally developed software applications.
Researches, writes and edits documentation and technical requirements, including software designs, evaluation plans, test results, technical manuals and formal recommendations and reports.
Works with Quality Assurance team to determine if applications fit specification and technical requirements.
Displays knowledge of engineering methodologies, concepts, skills, and their application in the area of specified engineering specialty.
Displays knowledge of, and ability to apply, process design and redesign skills. Presents and defends design and technical choices to internal audiences.
Displays knowledge of, and ability to apply, project management skills.
Consistent exercise of independent judgment and discretion in matters of significance.
Regular, consistent and punctual attendance. Must be able to work nights and weekends, variable schedule(s) as necessary.
Other duties and responsibilities as assigned.

Education Level
Bachelors Degree or Equivalent
Engineering, Computer Science
Generally requires 5-8 years related experience
The Oracle Cloud Infrastructure (OCI) team can provide you the opportunity to build and operate a suite of massive scale, integrated cloud services in a broadly distributed, multi-tenant cloud environment. OCI is committed to providing the best in cloud products that meet the needs of our customers who are tackling some of the world’s biggest challenges.

 

We offer unique opportunities for smart, hands-on engineers with the expertise and passion to solve complex problems in distributed highly available services and virtualized infrastructure. At every level, our engineers have a significant technical and business impact designing and building innovative new systems to power our customer’s business critical applications.  

Oracle's Developer Services Group designs, builds and operates Oracle's next-generation public cloud services which enable customers to write cloud-native applications packaged and deployed as containers. Services include Oracle Container Engine for Kubernetes, Oracle Functions, Oracle Container Registry, Oracle API Gateway and more.


With revolutionary innovation in performance, availability, ease of use and security, our cloud is designed for reliability, predictability and quality expected by the world’s largest enterprises and emerging start-up companies.


You will be working in one of our engineering teams to innovate and develop our public cloud capabilities at a time when the move towards cloud computing has never been stronger. We are defining new cloud native services developed from scratch, providing you with the opportunity to make a significant contribution towards the development of these services. The opportunities are virtually unlimited as we fuel growth and scale services.

In addition to working on interesting projects, you'll be getting a great salary, flexible working arrangements, state-of-the-art development tools and excellent opportunities for learning and career growth.


On a typical day you will probably be working as part of a small, focused team doing one or more of the following:

Programming, testing and operating software at the heart of Oracle's public cloud. This includes:
Writing frontend code in JavaScript, TypeScript, React, Redux, HTML, CSS.
Writing backend code in languages such as Java, Go, Python etc.
Working with containerization technologies such as Docker and Kubernetes
Automating life-cycle operations for your project: build, test, health check, deploy, upgrade etc. on *nix platforms
Deploying and operating your software in data-centers across the globe
Participating in the software engineering community at Oracle and beyond including:
Discussing potential solutions to complex technical problems and building consensus among disparate teams
Collaborating with open source communities and contributing to open source projects
Learning a new skill or trying a new way of working
Teaching someone else a skill
Developing your ideas by working in collaboration with some of the groundbreaking customers, startups and universities (and customers globally)
We are flexible about education and experience, but we think this role is suited to someone with at least a bachelor's degree (or equivalent experience) and at least 4 years’ experience as a software engineer/developer
Someone that is passionate about solving challenging problems and can operate in a fastpaced environment with iterative improvements delivered on a daily/weekly/monthly basis
Flexible and eager to work on a variety of technologies, willing to jump in and engage in all areas of service development and operations


What we are looking for:

Design, develop, troubleshoot and debug software programs for databases, applications, tools, networks etc.
As a member of the software engineering division, you will assist in defining and developing software for tasks associated with the developing, debugging or designing of software applications or operating systems. Provide technical leadership to other software developers. Specify, design and implement modest changes to existing software architecture to meet changing needs.
Duties and tasks are varied and complex needing independent judgment. Fully competent in own area of expertise. May have project lead role and or supervise lower level personnel. BS or MS degree or equivalent experience relevant to functional area. 4 years of software engineering or related experience.

Since our founding in 2009, Pure Storage has empowered innovators to build a better world with data. In less than eight years, Pure reached $1B in sales, faster than nearly every enterprise company in history, and our incredible growth continues to outpace the competition.

Our mission? Deliver a simple, evergreen data platform that enables everyone to turn data into intelligence and advantage. The secret sauce? More than 3,000 team members (and growing!) around the world who join forces to invent the next big thing. And then the next one.

The world is experiencing a revolution driven by next-generation technology like AI, machine learning, virtual reality, quantum computing, and self-driving cars—all of which require unprecedented amounts of data. This sets the stage for Pure’s technology to grow exponentially in the coming years.

We’ve Only Scratched The Surface Of Our Ambitions , And As We Continue To Gobble Up Market Share, We’re Blazing Trails And Setting Records
For five straight years, Gartner has named Pure a leader in the Magic Quadrant for Solid-State Arrays .
Our customer-first culture and unwavering commitment to innovation have earned us a Satmetrix Net Promoter Score in the top 1% of B2B companies globally .
Pure puts a premium on the future , investing 26% of revenue into R&D.

If you, like us, say “bring it on” to exciting challenges that change the world, we have endless opportunities where you can make your mark.

SHOULD YOU ACCEPT THIS CHALLENGE...

The FlashArray team builds the industry’s most innovative, high-performance, and highly available portfolio of products that are designed for the most demanding mission critical applications. While we deliver a hardware storage array, over 90% of our engineering staff are software engineers. Our customers are the most important part of our business and they love FlashArray for it's simplicity of management, the constant flow of new and exciting upgrades, and ability to live on the cutting edge of technology while never taking downtime, ever. Most recently, we extended the value of our FlashArray capabilities into the cloud with CloudSnap and Cloud Block Store for AWS. These new innovations enable our customers to leverage the agility of the public cloud for both traditional IT and cloud-native applications.

What You'll Be Doing...
Full life-cycle system development
Designing, coding and debugging applications in various software languages
You'll be running analysis in forms of software, code, requirements, system risk, and software reliability
Conducting software review and identification of code metrics
Performance tuning, improvement, balancing, usability, automation
Support, maintain, and document software functionality
Integrate software with existing systems


What You’ll Need To Bring To This Role...
BS/MS/PhD in computer science or equivalent
2 plus years of modern C++ server application development on Linux. Prior experience with STL, customized memory allocators, asynchronous programming, mocks, atomics, memory ordering, lambdas etc.
Experienced in debugging and solving performance problems in high performance, real-time environments, with an ability to chase problems down into the C++ runtime or the compiler, or the occasional hardware bug. Strong working knowledge of the Linux kernel.
Strong understanding of storage and networking protocols.
Familiarity with data center architectures and components such as switches, HBAs.
Preferable to have prior experience working with DPDK, SPDK and multicore systems
Ability to collaborate with kernel and application teams to ensure that features work end-end and integrate/interoperate seamlessly with other product capabilities.
Demonstrated strong analytical and problem solving skills
Excellent written and verbal communications skills

BE YOU—CORPORATE CLONES NEED NOT APPLY.

Pure is where you ask big questions, think differently, and make an impact. This is not just a job, but a place where you have a voice and can accelerate your career. We value unique thoughts and celebrate individuality, and with ample opportunity to learn, develop yourself, and expand into different roles, joining Pure is an investment in your career journey.

Through our Pure Equality program, which supports a flourishing field of employee resource groups, we nourish the personal and professional lives of our team members. And our Pure Good Foundation gives back to local and global communities through volunteering and grants.

And because w e understand the value of bringing your full and best self to work, we offer a variety of perks to manage a healthy balance, including flexible time off, wellness resources, and company-sponsored team events.
Leading eCommerce company Wish (www.wish.com) is exploring the establishment of a Software Development Center in Las Vegas! The company is seeking experienced and dedicated Software Engineers to fill a number of roles on this new team.

About Wish

Founded in 2010, Wish has quickly grown to become one of the world’s largest e-commerce companies. With over 500 million users, 1 million merchants and over 200 million items in our marketplace, it’s no wonder that Wish is the #1 shopping app in 40+ countries on the Google Play store, and #1 shopping app in 20+ countries on Apple App Store. Wish is also the most & best reviewed shopping app (#1 on Google Play & #2 on Apple App Store).

We are transforming commerce by blending traditional, local small business and global eCommerce to deliver an affordable, convenient and personalized, mobile shopping experience. Our sophisticated machine learning algorithms match consumer demand with merchant supply in a fun, interactive and incredibly effective way that drives user engagement and purchases through browsing the app, with many items available for pick-up at local businesses.

Our mission is to offer an unlimited selection of affordable, quality goods on a global scale while delighting our customers and merchants with an unbeatable user experience. We are also strengthening communities by partnering with small businesses, bringing them new revenue opportunities and new customer relationships. At Wish you’ll have the opportunity to build and deploy cutting edge technology while connecting the world through inclusive commerce.

About The Role

As a Software Engineer you will be responsible for the development of new features and products for the Wish Commerce ecosystem. Projects will include back-end development, Mobile UI / UX work and API Integrations. Although we do not expect engineers to be experts across the “Full Stack,” we do have opportunities for engineers who have expertise in one of these areas and sufficient intellectual curiosity to learn about other disciplines. Engineers may also have opportunities to be involved in designing technical solutions for various use cases.

At Wish, you’ll have the opportunity to work with the following technologies:
Swift, Xcode, Kotlin, MVVN
React / Redux
HTML / CSS
JavaScript / JS Libraries (angular, etc)
Python
Go (Golang)
Java
Spark
MongoDB
RESTful API
AWS

About You

As a Software Engineer at Wish, you will be asked to challenge traditional thinking through Micro-experimentation driven innovation. You will help develop and deploy cutting edge technical solutions that enhance the lives of millions of people globally. You must have at minimum a Computer Science degree from a well known University, plus the 3+ years of experience as a Software Developer / Engineer in a High Tech company. Experience in eCommerce is a plus but not required.

If you are excited by the prospect of building Wish’s presence in Las Vegas from the ground up, submit your CV to us directly for consideration.

Note: Resume submissions by employment agencies are not welcome and will be considered “gratis” with no fee due should the individual be hired by Wish or an affiliate at any time in perpetuity.

Wish values diversity and is committed to creating an inclusive work environment. We provide equal employment opportunity for all applicants and employees. We do not discriminate based on any legally-protected class or characteristic. Employment decisions are made based on qualifications, merit, and business needs. If you need assistance or accommodation due to a disability, please let your recruiter know. For job positions in San Francisco, CA, and other locations where required, we will consider for employment qualified applicants with arrest and conviction records.

Individuals applying for positions at Wish, including California residents, can see our privacy policy here .

Disney Parks, Experiences, and Products (DPEP) Technology includes the world’s leading Licensing & Publishing business across toys, apparel, home goods, digital games and apps, as well as the world’s largest children’s publisher. We are looking for a Software Engineer with full stack development experience.

Responsibilities
Encourage innovation.
Help design critical software components, systems, and features.
Design, develop, test, deploy, maintain and improve software.
Manage deliverables and deadlines in an agile setting.
Mentor and train other team members on design principles, and coding best practices.

Basic Qualifications
3+ years of software development experience in one or more general purpose programming languages
Experience with code versioning in a continuous integration/deployment setting
Working proficiency and communication skills in verbal and written English

Preferred Qualifications
Familiarity with the entire web stack
Experience with localization and accessibility
Experience working on large scale enterprise B2B systems

Required Education
Bachelor’s degree in Computer Science or similar field or related work experience.

About Parks, Experiences And Products

The Parks, Experiences and Products segment includes Disney’s iconic travel and leisure businesses, which include six resort destinations in the United States, Europe and Asia, a top-rated cruise line, a popular vacation ownership program, and an award-winning guided family adventure business. Disney’s global consumer products operations include the world’s leading licensing business across toys, apparel, home goods, digital games and apps; the world’s largest children’s publisher; Disney store locations around the world; and the shopDisney e-commerce platform.

About The Walt Disney Company

The Walt Disney Company, together with its subsidiaries and affiliates, is a leading diversified international family entertainment and media enterprise with the following business segments: media networks, parks and resorts, studio entertainment, consumer products and interactive media. From humble beginnings as a cartoon studio in the 1920s to its preeminent name in the entertainment industry today, Disney proudly continues its legacy of creating world-class stories and experiences for every member of the family. Disney’s stories, characters and experiences reach consumers and guests from every corner of the globe. With operations in more than 40 countries, our employees and cast members work together to create entertainment experiences that are both universally and locally cherished.

This position is with Disney Consumer Products and Interactive Media, Inc., which is part of a business segment we call Parks, Experiences and Products.

Disney Consumer Products and Interactive Media, Inc. is an equal opportunity employer. Applicants will receive consideration for employment without regard to race, color, religion, sex, national origin, sexual orientation, gender identity, disability or protected veteran status. Disney fosters a business culture where ideas and decisions from all people help us grow, innovate, create the best stories and be relevant in a rapidly changing world.

Fueled by a fundamental belief that having access to financial services creates opportunity, PayPal (NASDAQ: PYPL) is committed to democratizing financial services and empowering people and businesses to join and thrive in the global economy. Our open digital payments platform gives PayPal’s 305 million active account holders the confidence to connect and transact in new and powerful ways, whether they are online, on a mobile device, in an app, or in person. Through a combination of technological innovation and strategic partnerships, PayPal creates better ways to manage and move money, and offers choice and flexibility when sending payments, paying or getting paid. Available in more than 200 markets around the world, the PayPal platform, including Braintree, Venmo and Xoom, enables consumers and merchants to receive money in more than 100 currencies, withdraw funds in 56 currencies and hold balances in their PayPal accounts in 25 currencies.

When applying for a job you are required to create an account, if you have already created account - click Sign In.

Creating an account will allow you to follow the progress of your applications.

Note

Provide full legal first Name/Family Name
DO: Capitalize first letter of First and Last Name. Example: John Smith
DON'T: Capitalize entire First and/or Last Name. Example: JOHN SMITH
NOTE: Use correct grammar for Names with multiple cases. Example: McDonald or O'Connell

Provide full address details

Resume Is Required

Multiple attachments can be uploaded including Resume and Cover Letter for each application

Job Description Summary

Come join PayPal and help transform the shopping experience. We’re on a mission to simplify and personalize shopping experiences for consumers and help drive conversion and engagement for merchants. The shopping engineering team is adding team members in support of PayPal’s shopping mission. As a member of our team, you’ll collaborate closely with Product Owners, Designers and Engineers (3-in-a-box model) to create innovative solutions that will serve millions of consumers and merchants. You’ll play an important role in product development from concept to launch.

Our technology stack includes NodeJS, React and Redux. We do frequent brainstorming sessions and welcome new ideas and diverse perspectives to conceptualize new features. We follow agile methodologies to quickly iterate and deliver new features. We quickly run A/B test experiments to make product decisions. One of the core values of our team is to learn from each other irrespective of what level you’re at. We believe in ‘One Team Behaviors’ and Innovation, Collaboration, Inclusion and Wellness are major pillars for our success.

Job Description

We are looking for strong technologist who are passionate about solving complex and challenging problems. If you’re excited about your work making an impact on millions of consumers and merchants and if you love working on the newest technologies, delivering valuable and quality products with a sense of ownership, you should join us!

Responsibilities
Develop NodeJS web applications for the PayPal website using JavaScript (both client and server), HTML, CSS and related technologies.
Collaborate effectively with Application Development team as well as Design, Product teams advising on development best practices, performance, browser limitations, and accessibility.
Follow coding standards and guidelines with great attention to performance, maintainability SEO, and accessibility.
Adhere to PayPal coding standards and guidelines.
Identify and document best practices.
Prioritize workload to meet deadlines for assignments in the code release schedule.
Participate in the Agile development process.
Perform quality assurance on all new code from inception through integration, staging and production environments.
Stay current with the newest online technologies; research new technologies and make recommendations on implementations.

Job Requirements
2+ years experience with web application development.
Experience with NodeJs along with NodeJs frameworks.
Expertise in browser based technologies (HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, AJAX, etc.).
Knowledge of cross-browser, cross-platform, and design constraints on the web.
Experience with a Version Control system (GIT, SVN, CVS, etc.).
Experience in the Agile development process.
Strong attention to detail.
Solid knowledge of algorithms with good problem solving and troubleshooting skills.
Adherence to established software design patterns.
Good interpersonal communication skills.
Ability to work effectively both independently and within a team.
A strong passion for producing quality software and web user interfaces.
Strong desire to learn and share knowledge with others.
Bachelors degree or equivalent experience.

Subsidiary
t Capital One, we’re building a leading information-based technology company. Still founder-led by Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Richard Fairbank, Capital One is on a mission to help our customers succeed by bringing ingenuity, simplicity, and humanity to banking. We measure our efforts by the success our customers enjoy and the advocacy they exhibit. We are succeeding because they are succeeding.

Guided by our shared values, we thrive in an environment where collaboration and openness are valued. We believe that innovation is powered by perspective and that teamwork and respect for each other lead to superior results. We elevate each other and obsess about doing the right thing. Our associates serve with humility and a deep respect for their responsibility in helping our customers achieve their goals and realize their dreams. Together, we are on a quest to change banking for good.

Software Engineer

Being Capital One Tech

At Capital One, we consider ourselves the bank a technology company would build. We’re delivering best-in-class innovation so that our 65 million customers - and counting - can manage their finances with ease. Our reality and vision empower our engineers to use artificial intelligence and machine learning to transform real-time data, software, and algorithms into financial clarity.

We’re all-in on the cloud and a leader in the adoption of open source, RESTful APIs, microservices, and containers. We build our own products and release them with a speed and agility that allows us to get new customer experiences to market quickly. We’re going boldly where no bank has gone before. And, as a founder-led company, we’re inspired and empowered to make, break, do, and do good. So, let’s do something great together.

Your #LifeatCapitalOne

Looking to work somewhere with the flexibility of a start-up but the financial muscle of a Top-10 bank? You’re in the right place! And here’s what that means for you…

You'll have a flexible work schedule—we want to understand where and when you're at your best so you have a healthy work-life balance. Diversity and Inclusion are cultural norms here—you’ll have access to active local chapters of Women in Tech, Blacks in Tech, and Hispanics in Tech and more. Plus, you’ll be given time to support the next generation of technologists by volunteering with youth programs like Capital One Coders - our engineer-led experience that teaches middle school students in underserved communities how to code. Want to learn more? See what our associates are up to at #LifeatCapitalOne!

Calling All Software Engineers

A hub for innovation, our Northern Virginia presence is expanding, and we need Software Engineers who know their stuff to join our team. As a Capital One Software Engineer, you’ll have the opportunity to be on the forefront of driving a major transformation within Capital One. You’ll work with a team of developers with deep experience in machine learning, distributed microservices, and full stack systems. You’ll collaborate with digital product managers, and deliver robust cloud-based solutions to drive powerful experiences that help millions of Americans achieve financial empowerment. Want to learn more? Check out the low-down on our high-tech.

Who You Are
You are fun to work with – you’re excited by a team environment
You are curious. You like to learn new technologies, and you adapt well to change
You are passionate about current state-of-the-art software technologies and tools, with experience implementing them effectively
You are excited about working with cloud-native stack, building on AWS using technologies like Kubernetes and Serverless
You possess a sense of intellectual curiosity and a burning desire to learn
You are motivated and actively looking for ways to contribute
You are passionately focused on the customer and the details that make their experience exceptional
You value data and truth over ego
You possess a strong sense of engineering craftsmanship, take pride in your code
You’re pragmatic - you make the best use of time and resources to find the simplest workable solution
You think and act like an owner, taking personal responsibility for both team and product success
You possess great communication and reasoning skills, including the ability to influence and make a strong case for technology choices
You thrive in collaborativeagile teams and are ready to take on new and unexpected challenges while building the next wave of engineering solutions

What You’ll Own
Collaborating with and across Agile teams to design, develop, test, implement, and support technical solutions in full-stack development tools and technologies
Leading the craftsmanship, security, availability, resilience, and scalability of your solutions
Bringing a passion to stay on top of current trends, experiment with and learn new technologies, participate in internal & external technology communities, and mentor other members of the engineering community
Encouraging innovation, implementation of cutting-edge technologies, outside-of-the-box thinking, teamwork, and self-organization
Assisting in the hiring of top engineering talent and maintaining our commitment to diversity and inclusion

Basic Qualifications
Bachelor’s Degree
At least 2 years of experience in software engineering

Preferred Qualifications
Master's Degree
4+ years of experience in software engineering
2+ years of experience in Agile practices
1+ years of experience with AWS, GCP, Microsoft Azure, or another public cloud service
4+ years of experience in at least one of the following: Java, Scala, Python, Go, Javascript/TypeScript, Angular/React.js, or Node.js
2+ years of experience working with big data technologies (e.g. Hadoop, Spark, Presto)
2+ years of experience working on streaming data applications (e.g. Kafka, Kinesis, Flink, or Spark Streaming)
4+ years of experience in open source frameworks


At this time, Capital One will not sponsor a new applicant for employment authorization for this position.
As a Software Engineer you’ll take part in the design and development of software for the current and next generation of Tesla’s Enterprise Resource Planning systems. In this role, you’ll be developing highly complex applications with a team goal of streamlining business operations and improving overall user experience. The ideal candidate is a self-starter with a strong desire to increase efficiencies, and make an impact while contributing to a cross-functional team. Your ability to creatively collaborate and execute team goals will affect scalability and directly contribute to the company mission of accelerating the world’s transition to sustainable energy.

Responsibilities
Work with experienced engineers across many functional areas to deliver business value to internal and external stakeholders.
Design and develop new modules on the home grown ERP application Warp which is used to plan, procure and produce cars.
Develop scalable solutions using tools like Angular, C# dotNet, MySQL and other open stack frameworks.
Know your app! Seek to understand all aspects, business and technical, of the applications on which you work so that you can be most effective.
Contribute towards the timely completion of development tasks and small projects while applying company standards.
Continually learn and apply relevant software development practices, patterns, tools and technologies.
Increase efficiency, reduce waste wherever and whenever possible.
Requirements
4+ years in web application development, including: Implementing Application Programming Interfaces (APIs), Object Oriented Programming and Design (OOP&D), Object Relational Mapping (ORM)
Experience in frontend development, using tools such as: JavaScript, Angular, React, etc.
Experience in backend development, using tools such as: C#, Java, Go, Ruby, etc.
Relational databases, SQL, NoSQL
Agile Development
Distributed Source Control, using tools such as: Git
Education: BS/MS in Computer Science or equivalent degree.

We are the global technology company behind the world’s fastest payments processing network. We are a vehicle for commerce, a connection to financial systems for the previously excluded, a technology innovation lab, and the home of Priceless®. We ensure every employee has the opportunity to be a part of something bigger and to change lives. We believe as our company grows, so should you. We believe in connecting everyone to endless, priceless possibilities.

Job Title

Software Development Engineer I - Mastercard Labs

Overview

In Mastercard Labs we are currently looking for a Software Engineer passionate about innovation and new technologies to join our NYC R&D team and help Mastercard build the future of payments and commerce.

In this role you will have the opportunity to work on our New Interfaces team, which explores how emerging human-computer interfaces such as Augmented Reality, Virtual Reality and Natural Interfaces such as voice or vision will shape the future of payments and commerce.

The team
Our team is built on a foundation of research and development, mining innovation internally, innovating new product lines with emerging technology, managing new products from inception to market validation and engaging strategically with startups to shape the future of commerce with and for our customers.

You will be working alongside a skilled group of technologists in the Research and Development team based in our NYC TechHub. This team focuses primarily on Blockchain and New Interfaces projects and its part of our wider Mastercard Labs network with teams in Singapore, Dublin, Nairobi and Pune.

Find Out More About Mastercard Labs

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w7FvjIQx_tg

Role
Objectives
Leverage New Interfaces and Blockchain technologies to design, build and launch robust, scalable and elegant digital products.
Keep up to date on technology trends and assess relevance in the payments space.
Assess the technical feasibility of new product ideas by developing prototypes and proof of concepts.
Propose new approaches to solve tough technical and product challenges.
Stay up to date with the latest trends and technologies in your research space.
Participate in hackathons and design thinking workshops for other Mastercard Labs initiatives.
All About You
Prior experience as a full stack engineer.
Strong software development fundamentals and agile methodologies.
Team player, with the ability to work independently to drive results.
Open to learning and evaluating new technologies and frameworks.
Nice to Have
Experience with Java and Springboot.
Experience designing and implementing web API.
Experience with OpenAPI (Swagger).
Familiar with Docker and Kubernetes.
Familiar with Typescript, Angular and Node.js.
Familiar with CI/CD and DevOps concepts.
Familiar with Git and Jenkins.
Experience with Unity, Blender or other 3D Design and animation technologies.
Experience with Artificial intelligence, Machine Learning, Natural Language Processing, Voice Recognition or Computer Vision.
Experience with Augmented Reality or Virtual Reality.
Education
Bachelor's degree in Computer Science, Information Systems, Information Technology, Engineering or equivalent work experience.


As a software developer at Epic, you’ll write software that impacts the lives of 75% of Americans and 250 million patients around the world. Working in your own office, surrounded by thousands of high-caliber developers, you’ll use modern development methodologies and employ user-centered design, analytics, and machine learning tools to drive innovation in healthcare. Using leading-edge technologies and languages like JS, TS, and C#, you’ll invent better ways to reduce medical errors, streamline record sharing between hospitals, and provide the quality of care a patient deserves.

Write software for the most innovative health systems on the planet.

All the Top 20 health systems in U.S. News and World Report are Epic customers. Our community includes major systems like the Mayo Clinic, Johns Hopkins, Cleveland Clinic, and Kaiser Permanente, as well as leading academic medical centers at the University of Wisconsin, University of Michigan, University of California, University of Texas, The Ohio State University, and many more.

Work in your own office, eat delicious food, and travel the world.

We don’t believe in cubicles. (Well, we believe they exist, but…) You will work in an individual office that will heighten your ability to get stuff done. For lunch, visit King’s Cross or Cassiopeia for a wide array of meal options, or go to one of our smaller, themed bistros, featuring wood-rotisserie, pan-Asian, and Latin-inspired cuisine. All meals are restaurant-quality but cost only a few dollars, and they’re prepared by a team comprised of kitchen talent from restaurants around the country. And, after five years here, you’ll earn a four-week sabbatical anywhere in the world. Staff have kayaked in Patagonia, attended a Beyoncé concert in Ireland, built a library in Tanzania, and run a marathon in Antarctica.

Live affordably in a city known for its rising tech talent.

Epic is located just outside Madison, Wisconsin the second fastest growing market for tech talent in the United States and home to the state capital and the University of Wisconsin. Madison, a city surrounded by water, has received accolades for being the greenest city in America (NerdWallet), the best city for renters (SmartAsset), fittest city in America (Fitbit), and, for the gamers, is one of a handful of US cities to have a Killer Queen arcade game, located at Madison’s first arcade bar.

More than just important work.

We offer comprehensive benefits to keep you healthy and happy as you grow in your life and career, and your merit-based compensation will reflect the impact your work has on the company and our customers. You'll also be eligible for annual raises and bonuses, as well as stock grants, which give you an even greater stake in the success of Epic and our customers. Epic is an Equal Opportunity/Affirmative Action (W/M/Vets/Disability) employer. Please see our full non-discrimination statement at https://careers.epic.com/EEO.

Job Requirements
Open to relocation to the Madison, WI area (we will bring you here to explore the city for yourself)
BS/BA or greater in Computer Science, Mathematics, Software Engineering, Computer Engineering, or a related field
A history of academic excellence or professional success
Eligible to work in the United States without visa sponsorship (persons with appropriate qualifications and eligible for TN sta


Slack is looking for Backend Engineers to build features, design and implement API methods, and improve the performance and reliability of our systems as we rapidly scale our product and organization.

We build our app using reliable tools that our team knows and trusts, including PHP/Hack, Java, MySQL, and Linux. Expertise in these areas is a huge plus, but having familiarity with other common web languages (such as Python or Ruby) and other relational databases are fine substitutes. We’re a collaborative team who genuinely enjoys working together with a cross-functional team of product managers, designers, frontend, iOS, Android, automation, and quality engineers to make Slack a better product. We are looking for engineers that understand that simplicity and reliability are aspects of a system to be carefully calculated with every decision made.

A Taste Of Our Scale And Reach
Users spend over 10 hours connected and 2+ hours active in Slack every work day.
10M+ Daily Active Users in more than 150 countries.
1.5 billion messages are sent per month, half of those outside the United States.
Every day we see over 3.5 million simultaneously connected users, over 3.5 billion web requests, over 42 billion database queries per day, and our systems see over 1 million queries/second in our caching tier.
We have 8.8M+ app installations with 155,000 weekly active developers building on the developer platform.
90% of our paid teams on Slack actively use apps.

Slack has a positive, diverse, and supportive culture—we look for people who are curious, inventive, and work to be a little better every single day. In our work together we aim to be smart, humble, hardworking and, above all, collaborative. If this sounds like a good fit for you, why not say hello?

What You Will Be Doing
You'll brainstorm with Product Managers, Designers, Backend, and Frontend Engineers on your team to conceptualize and build new features for our large (and growing!) user base.
You’ll produce high-quality results by contributing heavily to team projects that have a significant impact on the business.
You’ll actively own team features or systems and define their long-term health, while also improving the health of surrounding systems.
You'll assist our skilled support team and operations team in triaging and resolving production issues.
You'll mentor other engineers and deeply review code.
You’ll improve engineering standards, tooling, and processes


What You Should Have
You’ve been building web applications professionally for 2+ years.
You have experience with functional or imperative programming languages -- e.g., PHP, Python, Ruby, Go, C, or Java.
You can contribute to technical architecture discussions and help drive technical decisions within your team.
You write understandable, testable code with an eye towards maintainability.
You are a strong communicator. Explaining complex technical concepts to designers, support, and other engineers is no problem for you.
You possess strong computer science fundamentals: data structures, algorithms, programming languages, distributed systems, and information retrieval.
You have completed a bachelor's degree in Computer Science, Engineering or related field, or equivalent training, fellowship, or work experience.

Slack is a layer of the business technology stack that brings together people, data, and applications – a single place where people can effectively work together, find important information, and access hundreds of thousands of critical applications and services to do their best work. From global Fortune 100 companies to corner markets, businesses and teams of all kinds use Slack to bring the right people together with all the right information. Slack is headquartered in San Francisco, CA and has offices around the world. For more information on how Slack makes teams better connected, visit slack.com.

Ensuring a diverse and inclusive workplace where we learn from each other is core to Slack’s values. We welcome people of different backgrounds, experiences, abilities and perspectives. We are an equal opportunity employer and a pleasant and supportive place to work.

Under Armour is the chosen brand of this generation of athletes... and the athletes of tomorrow. We're about performance - in training and on game day, in blistering heat and bitter cold. Whatever the conditions, whatever the sport, Under Armour delivers the advantage athletes have come to demand. That demand has created an environment of growth. An environment where building a great team is vital. An environment where doing whatever it takes is the baseline and going above and beyond to protect the Brand is commonplace. The world's hungriest athletes live by a code, a pledge to themselves and everyone else: Protect This House... I Will.

Our goal is to Build A Great Team!

Will YOU…Protect This House?!

Software Engineer

Come join Under Armour and create software to power the future of connected fitness. We’re serious about individual growth and athlete achievement, and we’d like you to join us to build real products that will help millions of people improve their lives through better health & fitness. You will learn, grow, and play in an environment that focuses on results and delivery, all backed by one of the strongest consumer brands in history.

We're looking to add a new Software Engineer to our Foundational Services organization, which powers an ecosystem of over 200M athletes, fitness enthusiasts, and people pursuing a healthy lifestyle. In this role, you will build services, tools, and libraries that enable innovations in our suite of applications that span web, wearable devices, and mobile including MyFitnessPal and MapMyFitness.

You Should Apply For This Role If You

Want to make a real-world impact

Are ready to take ownership and responsibility for your work

Are interested in growing as both an engineer and a teammate

Like learning new programming languages

Have a solid understanding of both computer science fundamentals and what it takes to build internet-scale applications. You likely have a degree in Computer Science or similar field, or equivalent real-world experience.

Knowledge of design patterns and software engineering best practices

Have experience with microservices architectures

Experience with Java

High volume Message Queues such as Kafka

Familiarity with AWS and/or other cloud computing platforms

Familiarity with Docker and Kubernetes

At Under Armour, we are committed to providing an environment of mutual respect where equal employment opportunities are available to all applicants and teammates without regard to race, color, religion, sex, pregnancy (including childbirth, lactation and related medical conditions), national origin, age, physical and mental disability, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, genetic information (including characteristics and testing), military and veteran status, and any other characteristic protected by applicable law.

Under Armour believes that diversity and inclusion among our teammates is critical to our success as a global company, and we seek to recruit, develop and retain the most talented people from a diverse candidate pool.


Our mission is to make this ever-expanding universe of social media data available via a consistent and reliable architecture so the world can realize the full potential of this amazing stream of information. If you're interested in building products that customers use daily to make key business decisions, resolve their own customers’ concerns, and drive groundbreaking research, read on.

Our software collects, processes, enriches and delivers hundreds of billions of activities a day through a wide variety of social media APIs. Our products are highly available, scalable, optimized, respectful of Twitter's user base, and truly essential for our customers who build their businesses on Twitter data. We work closely with our product managers and customers to make sure we build the right products at the right time.

DES Products Include

Real time streaming access to Twitter data

Historical and sync access to archived Twitter data

Enrichments on Twitter objects derived from the latest machine learning technologies

Flexible access to aggregate data

End to end developer experience

What You’ll Do

If this sounds like a team you want to be a part of, great! We are looking for an engineer who loves writing code, has a strong desire to learn new technologies, and wants to collaborate with teammates who are committed to serving their customers. More specifically, you will
Collaborate with product managers, designers, and engineers across the company
Craft elegant solutions to solve problems and fix bugs
Help drive the direction of our growing architecture

Who You Are
You're smart and you love to build systems with purpose that are well tested and flexible.
You wish to tackle hard product and engineering challenges while working alongside smart people.
You're excited to ramp up on new technologies to build awesome things with us!
You have a disciplined approach to writing unit and integration tests
You have an ability to take on complex problems, learn quickly, and persist towards a good solution
You want to help architect APIs that work with tremendous scale and make it easy for customers to generate insights about their business.
You have experience working with big data processing (Hadoop, Storm, Scalding, Kafka etc) and NoSQL databases.
﻿

Requirements
MS or BS in Computer Science
3+ years of industry or equivalent programming experience
Understanding of core CS concepts, such as, common data structures and algorithms

We are committed to an inclusive and diverse Twitter. Twitter is an equal opportunity employer. We do not discriminate based on race, ethnicity, color, ancestry, national origin, religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, age, disability, veteran status, genetic information, marital status or any other legally protected status.
By applying for this role, you could choose to work in the following locations:
San Francisco

Bachelor's degree in Computer Science, similar technical field or equivalent practical experience.
Software development experience in one or more general purpose programming languages.
Experience working with two or more of the following: web/mobile application development, Unix/Linux environments, distributed/parallel systems, machine learning, information retrieval, natural language processing, networking, software systems/security software development.


Preferred Qualifications
Master’s or PhD degree in Engineering, Computer Science or other related technical field.
5 years of relevant software development experience with accessible technologies.
Experience with one or more general purpose programming languages including but not limited to: Java, C/C++, C#, Objective C, Python, JavaScript or Go.
Interest and ability to learn other coding languages as needed.
Excellent written and verbal communication skills.


About The Job

Google's software engineers develop the next-generation technologies that change how billions of users connect, explore, and interact with information and one another. Our products need to handle information at massive scale, and extend well beyond web search. We're looking for engineers who bring fresh ideas from all areas, including information retrieval, distributed computing, large-scale system design, networking and data storage, security, artificial intelligence, natural language processing, UI design and mobile; the list goes on and is growing every day. As a software engineer, you will work on a specific project critical to Google’s needs with opportunities to switch teams and projects as you and our fast-paced business grow and evolve. We need our engineers to be versatile, display leadership qualities and be enthusiastic to take on new problems across the full-stack as we continue to push technology forward.

Google aspires to be an organization that reflects the globally diverse audience that our products and technology serve. We believe that in addition to hiring the best talent, a diversity of perspectives, ideas and cultures leads to the creation of better products and services.

Google is and always will be an engineering company. We hire people with a broad set of technical skills who are ready to take on some of technology's greatest challenges and make an impact on millions, if not billions, of users. At Google, engineers not only revolutionize search, they routinely work on massive scalability and storage solutions, large-scale applications and entirely new platforms for developers around the world. From Google Ads to Chrome, Android to YouTube, Social to Local, Google engineers are changing the world one technological achievement after another.

Responsibilities
Design, develop, test, deploy, maintain and improve software.
Manage individual project priorities, deadlines and deliverables.
Focus on overall product quality and user experience.
Take initiative and be responsible for technical solutions to data quality and workflow challenges.

At Google, we don’t just accept difference—we celebrate it, we support it, and we thrive on it for the benefit of our employees, our products and our community. Google is proud to be an equal opportunity workplace and is an affirmative action employer. We are committed to equal employment opportunity regardless of race, color, ancestry, religion, sex, national origin, sexual orientation, age, citizenship, marital status, disability, gender identity or Veteran status. We also consider qualified applicants regardless of criminal histories, consistent with legal requirements. See also Google's EEO Policy and EEO is the Law. If you have a disability or special need that requires accommodation, please let us know by completing this form .


Wirecutter is seeking a full-stack Software Engineer to work collaboratively building digital products and features that share our research and expertise, helping our millions of readers make informed buying decisions. As a Software Engineer, you will be a member of a cross-functional team that includes other engineers as well as a product manager, project manager, and designer. We are working toward our mission of being the most trusted and helpful recommendation service. You will use your knowledge and skills alongside your team members to help us get there.

We have a respectful and inclusive culture that values learning, creative problem solving, supportive teamwork, and shipping value. We focus on scale, reliability, performance and product agility, which means picking the right tool for the job, while also being pragmatic and flexible as needed.

That Being Said, Wirecutter Is Powered By a Modern Web Stack Consisting Of a Variety Of Languages And Frameworks Including

The best code our software engineers write is none at all.
JavaScript - Node.js, Express, React, Apollo
PHP - WordPress, Laravel
Python - Django
This is a remote position in a fully distributed department. We are eligible to hire folks living in the United States - in the following states only: AZ, CA, CO, CT, DC, FL, GA, HA, IA, IL, MA, ME, MI, MN, MO, NH, NJ, NY, OH, OR, PA, TX, VA, WA.

In This Role, You Will
Partner with Product Management, Project Management, Design, and other professionals within your team and beyond, to collaboratively tackle difficult and ambiguous problems.
Write, test, debug, and deploy code across a variety of languages and frameworks including JavaScript, PHP, WordPress, and React.
Work across the different phases of the software development lifecycle including estimating level-of-effort, identifying the best approach, building, performing QA testing, deploying, documenting, debugging, and supporting features.
Participate and contribute to stand-ups, sprint planning, and retrospectives at the agile team level and up.
Perform code reviews with helpful and meaningful feedback for your teammates.
Research, document, note trade-offs and recommend potential solution around future product features.
Work collaboratively across the engineering department to ensure standard methodologies and processes are followed.
Lead by example.

About You

You think critically, provide helpful feedback to your co-workers, collaborate well with others, tackle problems that achieve business goals, and are biased towards action. You are self-aware, can clearly communicate complex ideas in writing or in person, and have.

You Should Have
3+ years of programming experience across JavaScript, PHP, Python, or other similar programming languages.
Strong knowledge of software principles, application architecture, data structures, coding conventions, and security practices.
Ability and/or interest in working across the technology stack (back-end to front-end).
Strong communication skills that allow you to convey complex ideas in writing or in person.
Ability to use your technical skills to achieve business goals.
Analytical and creative problem-solving skills.
Empathy for our readers and desire to improve their experiences.
Desire to work collaboratively as part of a multidisciplinary team.
Ideally, you have experience developing features for a content management system such as WordPress or Drupal.
Ideally, you have previously worked on a distributed or hybrid team.

About Wirecutter

Founded five years ago by journalists fed up with the time and energy it takes to shop, Wirecutter developed a simpler approach to giving buying advice: just tell people exactly what to get in one single guide. The company’s purpose: to help people find great things, quickly and easily. Through rigorous testing, research, reporting, and whatever means necessary, they create straightforward recommendations that save readers from unnecessary stress, time, and effort. We then monetize these guides by enabling our readers to easily purchase the products they are interested in.

Locations:

Wirecutter’s main office is located in Long Island City, Queens, NY. We have another small office located in Los Angeles. Wirecutter remains a highly remote culture, and our engineering department is 100% remote.

At Boeing, we are all innovators on a mission to connect, protect, explore and inspire. From the seabed to outer space, you’ll learn and grow, contributing to work that shapes the world. Help create the ground station of the future for unmanned vehicles. Find your future with us!

The Boeing Company is seeking a Software Engineer to join the Maui Space Surveillance group located in Kihei, HI. Join an inspiring Boeing team supporting state of the art technology while advancing research in Space Situational Awareness capabilities for the warfighter. Be a part of a team developing mount control, sensor integration, remote operations and leverage Machine Learning to analyze complex data across a variety of customer programs.

Software & Systems Engineer needed on the Research and Development for Advanced Space Superiority Technology and Engineering (RASTER) Program, Maui Space Surveillance Site on Maui, HI. The selected candidate will support scientific research and development projects aimed at discovering / developing systems and advanced techniques for space situational awareness involving both imaging and non-imaging techniques.

Responsibilities may include but are not limited to the following:
Develops, documents and maintains architectures, requirements, algorithms, interfaces and designs for software systems
Develops and maintains code and integrates software components into a fully functional software system
Develops software verification plans, test procedures and test environments, executing the test procedures and documenting test results to ensure software system requirements are met
Performs software project management and software supplier management functions
Develops, selects, tailors and deploys software processes, tools and metrics
Executes and documents software research and development projects
Serves as a subject matter expert for software domains, system-specific issues, processes and regulations
Tracks and evaluates software team and supplier performance to ensure product and process conformance to project plans and industry standards
Works under general direction

Boeing is a Drug Free Workplace where post offer applicants and employees are subject to testing for marijuana, cocaine, opioids, amphetamines, PCP, and alcohol when criteria is met as outlined in our policies.

Security Clearance And Export Control Requirements

This position requires the ability to obtain a US Security Clearance for which the US Government requires US Citizenship. Obtain Secret US Security clearance (Post-Start)

Basic Qualifications Required
This position requires the ability to obtain a US Security Clearance for which the US Government requires US Citizenship. Obtain Secret US Security clearance (Post-Start)
Programming skills in languages such as Python, Java, C, C++, & MATLAB.
3+ years' in-depth knowledge of classical machine learning and deep learning concepts.
Hands-on experience with computer vision, machine learning, and deep learning algorithm development.
2+ years' experience developing and delivering computer vision applications using deep learning algorithms and Tensorflow and Keras libraries.

Preferred Qualifications
Knowledge of (and interest in) image and signal processing with exceptional skills in applied physics and math and strong software development skills are required.
Ability to develop software models of physical systems and scientific phenomena using UNIX/ LINUX and Windows based computing platforms.
Knowledge of basic astronomy, photometry, estimation theory, parallel computing, and orbital mechanics is desired.
Experience or education with ground based optical telescopes, electro-optical systems, sensors, lasers, and supercomputing platforms is also desired.
Hands-on experience with computer vision, machine learning, and deep learning algorithm development.
Knowledge of basic astronomy, photometry, estimation theory, development of parallel code, and orbital mechanics is desired
Experience or education with ground based optical telescopes, electro-optical systems, sensors, lasers, and supercomputing platforms is also desired

Typical Education/Experience
Education/experience typically acquired through advanced technical education from an accredited course of study in engineering, computer science, mathematics, physics or chemistry (e.g. Bachelor) and typically 5 or more years' related work experience or an equivalent combination of technical education and experience (e.g. PhD, Master+3 years' related work experience)
In the USA, ABET accreditation is the preferred, although not required, accreditation standard
Looking for a company that inspires passion, courage and creativity, where you can be part of a team of hardworking people who are crafting the future of global commerce? If you’re passionate about joining a purpose driven community dedicated to creating an ambitious and inclusive environment, join eBay - we are a company you will be proud to be a part of.

As part of the Identity team in eBay you will work on products relating to Identity Services (Authentication, Authorization, Onboarding, User Management, Web Services security, Device Fingerprinting, Account linking/entity resolution, and ID Federation protocols such as OAuth and OpenId Connect). As a strong software developer, you will build and support these products which are a critical component of the eBay site and serve hundreds of millions of people on both Desktop and Mobile platforms. As a software engineer in our team, you will participate in the entire product development lifecycle, from design all the way through product launch, collaborating with PM, QE, and architecture teams.
Job RequirementsSolid Java and Java EE experience
Bachelors degree in CS or related discipline plus 2 years work experience in the industry, or Masters plus 1 years experience
Spring framework experience a plus
Experience on web services : SOAP, REST, HTTP/XML
Good security background preferred
Mobile (iOS and Android) experience a plus
Good team player and communication skills
Excellent documentation skills
Benefits:Benefits are an essential part of your total compensation for the work you do every day. Whether you’re single, in a growing family, or nearing retirement, eBay offers a variety of comprehensive and competitive benefit programs to meet your needs. Including maternal & paternal leave, paid sabbatical, and plans to help ensure your financial security today and in the years ahead because we know feeling financially secure during your working years and through retirement is important.

Facebook's mission is to give people the power to build community and bring the world closer together. Through our family of apps and services, we're building a different kind of company that connects billions of people around the world, gives them ways to share what matters most to them, and helps bring people closer together. Whether we're creating new products or helping a small business expand its reach, people at Facebook are builders at heart. Our global teams are constantly iterating, solving problems, and working together to empower people around the world to build community and connect in meaningful ways. Together, we can help people build stronger communities - we're just getting started.

We are the teams who create all of Facebook's products used by 1.5 billion plus people around the world. Want to build new features and improve existing products like Messenger, Video, Groups, News Feed, Search and more? Want to solve unique, large scale, highly complex technical problems? Facebook is seeking experienced Full-Stack Software Engineers to join our product teams. You can help build the next-generation of products that help us connect the next billion people, create new features that have billions of interactions per day and be a part of a team that’s working to help people connect with each other around the globe. Join us! This position is full-time and based in our Washington DC office.

Responsibilities
Full stack web/mobile application development with a variety of languages including but not limited to PHP, JavaScript, HTML, etc.
Create consumer products and features using internal programming language Hack
Implement web or mobile interfaces using XHTML, CSS, and JavaScript
Work closely with our PM and design teams to define feature specifications and build the next generation of products leveraging frameworks such as React & React Native
Work closely with operations and infrastructure to build and scale back-end services
Build report interfaces and data feeds
Minimum Qualification
5+ years of programming experience
5+ years of experience with relational databases and SQL
5+ years of experience with web technologies: JavaScript, XHTML, CSS

Preferred Qualification
B.S. or M.S. Computer Science or related field
Experience with PHP and C++
Facebook is proud to be an Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action employer. We do not discriminate based upon race, religion, color, national origin, sex (including pregnancy, childbirth, or related medical conditions), sexual orientation, gender, gender identity, gender expression, transgender status, sexual stereotypes, age, status as a protected veteran, status as an individual with a disability, or other applicable legally protected characteristics. We also consider qualified applicants with criminal histories, consistent with applicable federal, state and local law. Facebook is committed to providing reasonable accommodations for candidates with disabilities in our recruiting process. If you need any assistance or accommodations due to


Conversica is the leader in conversational AI for business and the only provider of AI-driven lead engagement software for marketing and sales organizations. The flagship Conversica® AI Sales Assistant helps companies find and secure customers more quickly and efficiently by automatically contacting, engaging, qualifying and following up with leads via natural, multi-channel, two-way conversations.

Used by more than 1,500+ companies worldwide, Conversica’s sales assistants are built on a proven AI platform integrating natural language processing (NLP), natural language generation (NLG), and machine learning (ML) capabilities. Recognized by Gartner as a Cool Vendor, Conversica is a portfolio company of Providence Strategic Growth, Kennet Partners and Toba Capital and is headquartered in Foster City, California.

Software Development Engineer

Conversica has a strong engineering team that is committed to our customers, passionate about technology and motivated to succeed. We are driven, self-starting, resourceful, innovative, collaborative, and get a lot done while having fun. If that sounds like you, then read on!

We are building out the next generation of our artificial intelligence platform. We have the big picture, but there is much design work to be done and lots of code to write. For that, we are looking for a “Software Development Engineer” for our new Seattle office.

Responsibilities
Develop services and applications in various system areas including machine learning, natural language processing and data analytics
Organize, lead, and participate in design sessions about your services and applications as well as other components from all areas of our system
Perform code development, both individually and in cooperation with team members, test your code, and ship it to production
Maintain and debug your services and applications in our production environment
Work closely with our Product Management and our Customer Success teams
Have fun, be fun, and get a lot done


Qualifications
10+ years professional hands-on software development experience preferably with high-volume distributed systems experience
Bachelor’s degree in Computer Science or related technical field
Strong individual contributor with experience working with teams of 4+ engineers
Strong architecture, design, and coding skills with an understanding of service-oriented-architecture and micro-service-architecture (MSA) patterns.
Ability to troubleshoot, performance tune, solve problems and write good unit tests
Strong demonstrable knowledge of both relational and NoSQL databases, preferably MySQL, and redshift
Strong software development process background, preferably using Agile methodologies such as Scrum and Kanban
Exemplary communication skills (both oral and written) with experience producing technical and design documentation of complex systems and processes
In-depth knowledge of object-oriented methodologies, UML design techniques, event driven architectures, and other design patterns
Familiarity with open-source libraries/frameworks, preferably in Python, OO programming with Java or PHP
Understanding and some hands-on experience with JSON and restful Web-services
Experience with machine learning or artificial intelligence or data sciences frameworks is a plus
Launched in 2011, Twitch is a global community that comes together each day to create multiplayer entertainment: unique, live, unpredictable experiences created by the interactions of millions. We bring the joy of co-op to everything, from casual gaming to world-class esports to anime marathons, music, and art streams. Twitch also hosts TwitchCon, where we bring everyone together to celebrate, learn, and grow their personal interests and passions. We’re always live at Twitch. Stay up to date on all things Twitch on LinkedIn , Twitter and on our Blog .

About The Role

Twitch is building the future of interactive entertainment. Recommendations, matching viewers with live content they greatly enjoy, is core to that vision. As a backend software engineer on Twitch Recommendations Team, you will help design, prototype and implement systems which enable users to discover personalized content. To solve this broad problem, you may work with / build data pipelines and large scale distributed services to serve recommendation results. By improving Twitch’s recommendation products, you will help Twitch’s viewers have a great experience, and Twitch’s broadcasters find more passionate fans.

You Will
Work on a large-scale recommendations platform, in the areas of data pipelines, ML training/testing infrastructure, serving infrastructure, and feature processing / storage.
Develop capacity and monitoring plans for the services you write
Write maintainable code with extensive test coverage, working in a professional software engineering environment (with source control, dev/stage/prod release cycle, continuous deployment)
Collaborate with applied scientists and other engineers across the company
Develop services which enable recommendations across different discovery products
You Have:
2+ years software development related experience
Proficiency in designing data structures, building algorithms, and at least one object oriented language (e.g. Python, Go, Java , C++ )
A Bachelors or preferably Masters degree in Computer Science, or Computer Engineering, or equivalent experience
Bonus Points
You know Go and have used it in production-ready systems.
Contributions to open source software projects. Send us a link to your contributions.
Background working with data pipelines, machine learning systems and recommendation systems.
Perks
Medical, Dental, Vision & Disability Insurance
401(k)
Maternity & Parental Leave
Flexible PTO
Commuter Benefits
Amazon Employee Discount
Monthly Contribution & Discounts for Wellness Related Activities & Programs (e.g., gym memberships, off-site massages, etc.)
Breakfast, Lunch & Dinner Served Daily
Free Snacks & Beverages

At Red Hat, we connect an innovative community of customers, partners, and contributors to deliver an open source stack of trusted, high-performing solutions. We offer cloud, Linux, middleware, storage, and virtualization technologies, together with award-winning global customer support, consulting, and implementation services. Red Hat is a rapidly growing company supporting more than 90% of Fortune 500 companies.

Job Summary

The Red Hat Release Engineering team is looking for a Software Engineer to join us in Westford, MA. In this role, you will be streamlining tooling and improving product releases and work within team processes. You'll focus on standardizing processes and creating solutions for Product teams by delivering changes in a timely and methodical manner. You will need to have a passion for technology and development and take responsibility for improving the processes and procedures that support standardized product releases. You'll need to be able to work in a fast-paced environment, with the goal of making our end users and customers more effective with each release.

Primary Job Responsibilities
Guide new and enhanced processes and procedures in the product space to improve the quality, consistency, and automation of releases
Contribute to release engineering tooling to deliver the functionality according to established requirements
Write documentation and help define and enforce best practices
Understand and prioritize requirements from multiple stakeholders
Work with internal and external teams on release engineering processes
Assist management with issue triage and escalations
Support multiple solutions and releases by helping to ensure that content is delivered on time and to specification
Interact with multiple teams within Red Hat and with the open source community
Communicate with Engineering and Management teams across the globe
Work in a fast-paced environment where timely deliverables are as important as the big ideas for potential growth
Communicate with end users in person and through IRC, issue trackers, and email

Required Skills
Bachelor's degree in computer science or equivalent experience
Excellent written and verbal communication skills in English
Good interpersonal skills
Familiarity with open source tools like Git, Python, and Bash
Familiarity with Red Hat’s tools like RPM Package Manager (RPM), Mock, and Koji
Availability to be based in the Westford, MA office

Red Hat is proud to be an equal opportunity workplace and an affirmative action employer. We review applications for employment without regard to their race, color, religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, national origin, ancestry, citizenship, age, veteran status, genetic information, physical or mental disability, medical condition, marital status, or any other basis prohibited by law.

Red Hat does not seek or accept unsolicited resumes or CVs from recruitment agencies. We are not responsible for, and will not pay, any fees, commissions, or any other payment related to unsolicited resumes or CVs except as required in a written contract between Red Hat and the recruitment agency or party requesting payment of a fee.

O'Reilly Media's Platform Engineering team supports O'Reilly's premier learning service, which is used by technologists, managers, and designers around the world to hone their skills and improve their craft. We are made of many small teams that are broadly distributed across the US, featuring tightly collaborative groups of developers, designers, and product managers constantly encouraging each other to deliver work that we can all be proud of.
Our engineering culture rests on a foundation of humility. Engineers are not too proud to ask for help, being anxious to learn from others. We are also eager to help others. We are slow to criticize and quick to offer praise. We strive for a blame free environment, aiming to fix problems rather than to fix blame. A foundation of humility means that our team loves diversity, thriving on the increased learning opportunities that diversity brings.
The Platform
The core of our backend platform is based on Python and Django and is supported by PostgreSQL, Redis, RabbitMQ, Node, and Solr. Our front-end platform is ES6-based, running React and Redux applications on Node. Our core architecture is based on microservices that are dockerized and deployed into Kubernetes clusters through our Jenkins-based CI/CD pipeline. Services communicate with each other through both synchronous (REST) and asynchronous (AMQP) means. The frontiers of our platform offer opportunities to explore Scala and machine learning, the evolving Kubernetes ecosystem, Openshift, KVM, and revolutionary virtualization and containerization technology. Because we offer learning scenarios for the most cutting edge technologies to our customers, our platform must likewise expand to support those technologies.
Your Day
In this role, you will be working on one of our learning platform's frontiers.
Your primary responsibility will be working directly on Katacoda, our interactive learning platform. You will develop, maintain and troubleshoot interactive environments for authors and learners to utilize. You will immerse yourself in a diverse array of cutting edge technologies from fresh languages such as Kotlin to cloud API internals and Kubernetes distributions such as OpenShift and GKE.
You will collaborate with multiple teams to adapt, scale and harden an infrastructure capable of supporting numerous learning contexts, including individual on-demand access and group training sessions hosted at international conferences such as OSCON, Strata and Kubecon.
You will become the go-to expert on Katacoda's integration with the O'Reilly Learning Platform, engaging with various internal parts of the company as well as our external Expert Network and partners to help them create and troubleshoot amazing interactive content.
Most teams follow the Scrum methodology, engaging in most of the traditional ceremonies over the course of a two week sprint. Other teams choose to use Kanban. We work hard to keep meetings as short as possible. Engineers exchange code reviews with other team members, provide mentoring, ensure thorough test coverage, and engage with QA and Operations to troubleshoot product issues. We maintain a balance between new feature development and maintenance by dedicating at least 20% of each sprint to technical debt reduction. We communicate through Slack, Google Meet, Github, and Jira. Most of our engineers develop on MacOS, but some use Linux.
You
You are a Linux generalist with broad experience in both development and operations. Virtualization and containerization are old hat. You have experience in multiple public clouds. You desire a balance between reliability, performance, and efficiency. You understand the importance of security and protecting the personal data of our customers. Experimenting with bleeding edge technology makes your day.
Not only can you walk the walk; you can talk the talk. Your documentation is poetry. You enjoy meeting and collaborating with new people on a regular basis. You enjoy interacting with customers. You can make a 5 year old understand a helm chart.
You enjoy occasional travel.

Qualifications
4-year college degree in Computer Science or related field, or a combination of relevant education and experience
4 years combined experience in dev and ops roles
Required Experience
Linux Internals such as networking, iptables, sockets and security configuration
Understanding of Virtualisation technologies, ideally KVM / QEMU
Docker
Kubernetes
Bash scripting
Javascript and Node.js
Bonus Experience
OpenShift
TDD
C / C++
Golang
Python
HashiCorp tooling - Packer, Terraform
Cloud Providers such as Azure, GCP, AWS
CNCF projects such as Vitess, Helm, Envoy, Prometheus

When you join Honeywell, you become a member of our global team of thinkers, innovators, dreamers and doers who make the things that make the future. That means changing the way we fly, fueling jets in an eco-friendly way, keeping buildings smart and safe and even making it possible to breathe on Mars. Working at Honeywell isn’t just about developing cool things. That’s why all our employees enjoy access to dynamic career opportunities across different fields and industries. Are you ready to help us make the future?

Support Honeywell BendixKing deliver innovative products to meet the evolving needs of general aviation market. You will work under limited supervision and alongside some of the world's most talented engineers and contribute to the development of Honeywell's next generation avionics for general aviation by designing and developing products/processes from prototype to market.

Key Responsibilities
Requirements and design
Software architecture and coding
Integration
Certification
Test
Feature Definition
Customer Support
Verification and Validation
YOU MUST HAVE
Bachelor ’s degree in Computer Science or Engineering
Must have graduated, from an accredited college or university, since December 2018, or will graduate by May 2020
Must have obtained degree within 12 months of the date of hire
Must be a US Citizen or Authori zed to work in the United States for any e mployer
WE VALUE
Passion for aviation, private pilot’s license or desire to obtain a plus.
Software programming experience in C++ or similar languages (academic or employment)
Knowledge of operating systems, such as Linux.
Demonstrate the ability to develop efficient and high-quality software
Knowledge of software configuration management and change management practices
Diverse and global teaming and collaboration
Excellent oral and written communication skills
Can quickly analyze, incorporate and apply new information and concepts
Ability to consistently make timely decisions even in the face of complexity, balancing systematic analysis with decisiveness
Additional Information
JOB ID: HRD74796
Category: Engineering
Location: 9201 San Mateo Blvd NE,Albuquerque,New Mexico,87113,United States
Exempt
Due to US export control laws, must be a US citizen, permanent resident or have protected status.
The Future is What We Make It

Engineers in the Controllers Division help ensure the firm meets all of its financial control and reporting obligations. Working in small and nimble teams, they build critical and complex applications to calculate P&L, monitor the firm’s balance sheet and liquidity, and support various regulatory filings across the globe.

Using a combination of computer science, finance and math skills, they build and support complex and critical software products that meet the ever-changing business needs and regulatory environment. They collaborate very closely with the finance business teams to transform accounting rules into working applications.
Seniority level
Analyst/Associate
Employment type
Full-time
Job function
Software Engineer
Industries
Financial Services

Responsibilities And Qualifications
In an Agile environment manage end-to-end systems development cycle from requirements analysis to coding, testing, UAT, implementation and maintenance
Develop high level/detailed technical designs, testing strategies, and implementation plans
Work in a dynamic, fast-paced environment that provides exposure to all areas of Finance
Understand and respond to business needs, facilitating and developing process workflow, data requirements, and specifications required to support implementation
Sklls And Experience We Are Looking For
Bachelor’s or Master’s degree in Computer Science or related technical discipline.
Experience in software development, including a clear understanding of data structures, algorithms, software design and core programming concepts
Strong Full-stack technical design and development skills and experience.
Technologies: Web/RESTful service development: HTML 5, JavaScript/AngularJS/React/Redux, JSON
Technologies: Linux and shell scripting, TDD (JUnit), Scala, Spark, Tableau
Strong programming experience in at least one compiled language (e.g. C, C++, Java)
In-depth knowledge of relational and columnar SQL databases, including database design
Comfortable with multi-tasking, managing multiple stakeholders and working as part of a team
Excellent communication skills including experience speaking to technical & business audiences and working globally
Strong problem solving and analytical skills
Interest in finance
Responsibilities And Qualifications

Software Engineer – Controllers Engineering

Engineers in the Controllers Division help ensure the firm meets all of its financial control and reporting obligations. Working in small and nimble teams, they build critical and complex applications to calculate P&L, monitor the firm’s balance sheet and liquidity, and support various regulatory filings across the globe.

Using a combination of computer science, finance and math skills, they build and support complex and critical software products that meet the ever-changing business needs and regulatory environment. They collaborate very closely with the finance business teams to transform accounting rules into working applications.
Seniority level
Analyst/Associate
Employment type
Full-time
Job function
Software Engineer
Industries
Financial Services

 the dawn of a new space age, Lockheed Martin is a pioneer, partner, innovator and builder. Our amazing men and women are on a mission to make a difference in the world and every day we use our unique skills and experiences to create, design and build solutions to some of the worlds’ hardest engineering problems. Our culture inspires employees to dream big, perform with excellence and create incredible products. We provide the resources, inspiration and focus and if you have the passion and courage to dream big, we want to build a better tomorrow with you.

We are a highly collaborative team that prefers short development iterations and embraces a “fail-fast” mentality (fail fast, fail often, react quickly and learn from every failure). Individual initiative and an ability to handle adversity are expected characteristics of all team members. We are an Agile team employing the Scrum framework to spec, design, code, and test software development.

The selected candidate is expected to be a creative problem solver and enthusiastic software developer. This position supports research and development as well as program development.

Candidate must be a self-starting, highly motivated, analytical, team player with leadership traits. Experience managing projects across multiple teams is a plus.

This position will leverage and develop software experience in the following areas: JavaScript, Java, Python, Big Data, Data Science, machine learning.

NetherRealm Studios, a division of WB Games Inc. seeks a Software Engineer to work as part of the programming team behind the Mortal Kombat franchise. This is an opportunity to show your skills and grow with a team of talented engineers working on a wide range of tasks for future titles.

We are looking for an extremely strong programmer with a passion for video game development to work on an array of features and optimization, from implementing specific gameplay mechanics to creating cutting-edge tools for artists. The work required will be constantly varying to allow you to gain a deeper understanding of all aspects of the game engine.

The right person for this position will have excellent general software development abilities, as well as strong knowledge of mathematics and experience with PS4 or Xbox One software development. This position requires expertise in at least one area of game development, from writing gameplay systems to online infrastructure, as well as a strong desire to constantly improve one’s knowledge and skillset.

The Daily

Implement new features, systems and code improvements directed by the director of engineering.
Fix bugs related to game engine and tools.
Work iteratively with artists and designers to define and implement specific features.
Report to leads on progress and evaluations of different algorithms and techniques.
Systematically debug complex issues and provide detailed feedback to senior engineers. This will often require stepping through code to help senior engineers isolate the root cause or issues.
Create documentation on implemented features suitable for content creators to understand.
Work with directors and senior programmers to improve both code implementation as well as general engineering practices.


The Essentials

BS in computer science or related field.
3+ years of programming/software engineering experience in the game industry.
Experience with the Unreal Engine.
Excellent C/C++ programming skills. We are looking for people with a deep understanding of the language and how it works.
Strong problem solving and mathematics skills.
Knowledge of next-generation architectures and game engines, preferably with hands on experience.
Ability to take direction and learn from others. Ability to work well in small groups.
Stellar communication skills and a positive attitude. The ability to work in a group to solve problems and ask for help when needed.
Strong desire to create top-notch, AAA titles.
Ability to collaborate with engineers and content creators.
Creative, focused, results-oriented, self-motivated, problem solver.

At Nike, Inc. we no longer see borders between the worlds of physical and digital, or of product and service. This marriage of environments has given birth to the Connected Product team. It is our mission to create a unique digital identity for all Nike products from production through consumer engagement, enabling seamless visibility, traceability, authentication and member experiences. We explore the edges of possible while delivering at scale, working across all functions of Nike, serving every athlete.

Expert Engineer – Connected Product Global Technology

As an Expert Software Engineer, you will be part of the Connected Product Global Technology Incubator team. Focused on building and running prototypes, proof-of-concepts, and initial pilots of new hardware and software technologies; to enable accelerated implementations for the Connected Product Transformational Initiative.

In this role, you will be a critical influencer providing thought-leadership on technical directions and developing new technologies. All the while, providing mentorship to other developers, through intentional and daily interactions with the team. Strong communication, ability to handle up and down, solve complex problems, and being a supportive leader and team player is key.

While investigating new technologies you will collaborate with domain engineering and enterprise platform teams. Ability to learn and fail quickly is paramount in building experience and understanding when new technologies are most valuable and where there is still maturity needed. Technical and functional demos and stakeholder feedback will be frequent, in order to understand immediate needs and changes.

Successful Candidates Will Exhibit The Following Qualities
Deep foundational knowledge of software engineering practices, particularly on distributed systems and cloud native architectures.
Experience with API development for performance.
Excellent verbal and written communication skills, to a team or executive level.
Emotional intelligence is essential in order to bring diverse groups together to solve common goals.
Pragmatic and customer / value focused in solutions rooted in continuous delivery.
Highly focused on delivery, ability to provide technical direction and be a contributing member of the team.
Ability to be strategic, while also going deep into complex technical problems.

What You Bring To Nike
Bachelors' degree in Computer Science, Software Engineering or equivalent experience.
Deep industry experience in cloud engineering problems around clustering, service design, scalability, resiliency, block and object stores, and distributed backend systems.
5+ years in a lead engineering role responsible for architecture decisions and direct technical leadership over engineering teams focused on delivering enterprise scale systems.
8+ years in a systems software development role using common system like Java, Python, and/or JavaScript.
Experienced knowledge of modern functional and/or multi-paradigm languages dealing with concurrency and locking a plus.
3+ years professional experience with AWS or other major cloud provider.
Experience with RFID, NFC, IoT, and mobile device development plus.

We are a data platform for microbial genomics. You'll join a technical, experienced (and profitable!) team working on meaningful problems that range from infectious disease diagnostics to outbreak epidemiology to improving our understanding of the microbiome. We work with top researchers, medical institutions, biotechs, and have processed samples from all 7 continents and space!


Required Skills: Javascript, HTML, CSS, React, Vue, Rust, Python, Flask, GraphQL, D3


Job Description: 

We're currently looking for generalist engineers, including both those who are backend- and frontend-leaning.
Remote work can be considered with previous experience.

General Requirements: 

3+ years of experience and effective across both sides of a web stack (we use Python on the backend and React on the frontend) 
You communicate well and work effectively with others 
You are comfortable with a high degree of freedom and commensurate responsibility

Nice to haves: 

You have a passion for (or are interested in learning about) biology!


Responsibilities: 

On the backend, our stack consists of Python microservices (Flask) and lower-level bioinformatics code (increasingly in Rust). 
Our frontend is built with React.

Benefits:

We are based in San Francisco, and offer a competitive salary, meaningful above-market equity, and the chance to be an early employee in a well-positioned startup. Benefits include full medical, dental, and vision coverage, a flexible vacation policy and relocation assistance if moving to the Bay Area. We're also willing to sponsor a visa for the right candidate.
DCCA is a veteran-owned high-technology company specializing in providing information technology services to a variety of government agencies and commercial enterprises since 1982. DCCA is proud to offer a strong, competitive compensation and benefits package. Visit our website at: www.dcca.com.
Software Engineer (All Experience Levels)
Candidate must have an active TS/SCI w/FSP

Key Tasks

DCCA is hiring cleared Software Engineers (SWE) of all experience levels for a variety of current and new contracts in the Annapolis Junction/Fort Meade area, supporting the DoD/Intelligence Community!

Required Skills
We are looking for team members who are highly motivated to support the national security mission and interested in being part of a growing organization
Desire to learn new techniques or use a new tool, or strengthen an existing skillset
Work as part of a team, or even lead a team of other engineers
Provide and implement recommendations for complex software projects
Analyze user requirements
Debugging existing software, testing, and system documentation
A majority of positions fall within the following experience guidelines:
SWE 0 – no demonstrated experience required with Bachelor’s degree in Computer Science (or related field)
SWE 1 – 7
years relevant experience and Bachelor’s degree
in lieu of degree, 11 years of experience
SWE 2 – 14
years relevant experience and Bachelor’s degree
in lieu of degree, 18 years of experience
SWE 3 – 20
years relevant experience and Bachelor’s degree
in lieu of degree, 24 years of experience
Desired Skills

Experience working in an Agile development team/environment, conducting sprint planning, etc.
Cloud technology and/or certifications
Experience as a software team lead
Big data
Analytics
CNO
Security
DevOps
Required Education / Certifications

Bachelor’s Degree in Computer Science or related field
DCCA is an Equal Opportunity/Affirmative Action Employer. All qualified applicants will receive consideration for employment without regard to race, color, religion, sex, national origin, protected veteran status, or disability status.

We believe the economy is better when everyone has access. When everyone has room to grow. No one should be left out because the cost is too great or the technology too complex. We started with a little white credit card reader but haven’t stopped there. We’re empowering the independent electrician to send invoices, setting up the favorite food truck with a delivery option, helping the ice cream shop pay its employees, and giving the burgeoning coffee chain capital for a second, third, and fourth location. We’re here to help sellers of all sizes start, run, and grow their business—and helping them grow their business is good business for everyone.

We believe the economy is better when everyone has access. When everyone has room to grow. No one should be left out because the cost is too great or the technology too complex. We started with a little white credit card reader but haven’t stopped there. We’re empowering the independent electrician to send invoices, setting up the favorite food truck with a delivery option, helping the ice cream shop pay its employees, and giving the burgeoning coffee chain capital for a second, third, and fourth location. We’re here to help sellers of all sizes start, run, and grow their business—and helping them grow their business is good business for everyone.

Job Description

At Square, our platform handles thousands of critical support interactions between our merchants and Customer Success Advocates every day. In order to keep Square running efficiently, we are creating an engineering team dedicated to improving the Customer Success Advocate experience. As a software engineer on Advocate Engineering, you will be responsible for designing, building, and maintaining full stack web applications that optimize the Customer Success Advocate experience from the time a merchant has a question until it is answered.

You Will
Write full stack, custom apps and services that enable Customer Success (CS) Advocates to support and educate Square merchants through email, message, and phone channels.
Integrate with data science models to optimize how support inquiries are handled.
Improve CS Advocate workflows through data-driven optimization and automation.
Put smiles on CS Advocates and merchants faces, while driving significant cost savings.
Combine your technical knowledge with hands on experience to help CS innovate through new products and tools

You Have

Qualifications
4+ years experience in building large scale applications using Ruby, Java or similar languages
BA/BS degree or equivalent practical experience
Experience developing product infrastructure and web services
Experience developing server-side code
Experience designing data models
Experience with unix production systems

Technologies We Use And Teach
Ruby on Rails, Ember.js, Sidekiq, Redis, Mysql
Salesforce Service Cloud, Amazon Connect
S2S architecture, REST APIs, protobufs

We are committed to provide our Employees a stable work environment with equal opportunity for learning and personal growth. Creativity and innovation are encouraged for improving the effectiveness of Southwest Airlines. Above all, Employees will be provided the same concern, respect, and caring attitude within the organization that they are expected to share externally with every Southwest Customer.


Responsibilities:


﻿WORK ACTIVITIES/CONTEXT:

 

Technical Expertise:

Effectively applies knowledge and skills of software development and testing to solve a range of problems.
Partners with other Technology Teammembers to provide advice or solutions within his or her area of expertise.
Keeps informed about current developments within his or her area of expertise.
Analytical Expertise:

Proactively identifies problems, performs root cause analysis, investigates information, performs impact analysis; formulates and executes plans to develop solutions.
Identifies strengths and weaknesses of alternative solutions, conclusions, or approaches to problems.
Understands and can estimate effort and value for solutions
Understands at a broad level how technology platforms/architectures are applied to automated business solutions.
Systems Development Engineering:

Facilitate or complete Analysis, design, and programming of viable solutions to high complexity business problems according to user specifications.
Develop or approve detail program specifications.
Partner with Enterprise Architecture to evaluate and recommend emerging technologies, and influence technical designs.
Testing / Deliverable Quality:

Participate in system and acceptance testing. 
Ensure that systems are functionally appropriate, technically sound, and well integrated.
Test and implement system and enhancements using techniques that preserve system integrity.
Production Support:

Responsible for immediate response to production program issues.
Task Management:

Sets up or follows established procedures and standards to ensure high quality and quantity of work.
Understand dependency identification processes in technology work, verifies information and carefully reviews and checks the accuracy of own work.
Establishes or follows prioritization processes to drive work and has a sense of urgency about getting work completed.
Looks for and seizes opportunities to do more or to do things better.
Analyze and resolve multiple complex problems without direction.
Research and recommend alternative actions for problem resolution.
Employ productivity aids in all aspects of assignments.
Highly organized and self-directed.
Communication:

Appropriately shares ideas and information with others.
Practices attentive and active listening.
Ensures that regular and consistent communications take place.
Expresses ideas clearly and concisely in writing.
Expresses oneself clearly in conversation and interaction with others.
Must be able to meet any physical ability requirements listed on this description.
May perform other job duties as directed by Employee’s Leaders.


Discover your opportunity with Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group (MUFG), the 5th largest financial group in the world (as ranked by S&P Global, April 2018). In the Americas, we’re 14,000 colleagues, striving to make a difference for every client, organization, and community we serve. We stand for our values, developing positive relationships built on integrity and respect. It’s part of our culture to put people first, listen to new and diverse ideas and collaborate toward greater innovation, speed and agility. We’re a team that accepts responsibility for the future by asking the tough questions and owning the solutions. Join MUFG and be empowered to make your voice heard and your actions count.

Job Summary

We're seeking a Sr. Software Engineer to support the Core Banking Transformation (CBT) Program. This is a multi-year effort to modernize our deposits platform with a digitally-led and simplified ecosystem for consumer, small business, commercial, and transaction banking to deliver exceptional customer experience.

As the Sr. Software Engineer you will lead the development efforts to integrate MUB’s current application ecosystem with the new Core Deposits platform that will provide the foundation for transforming deposit services at MUFG Americas. While transitioning the bank from a traditional ecosystem to a real-time deposit services platform, you will be responsible for the overall code quality and actualized requirements of the microservices platform.

Major Responsibilities
Design, develop, test, monitor, and release software to integrate the new core banking deposit system with the MUFG application ecosystem.
End-to-end implementation of our Distributed Transaction Auditing and Reconciliation System Log.
Provide practical implementation approaches to ensure development is aligned with the desired target state.
Implement and adhere to security standards.
Lead integration tests, performance frameworks, and chaos engineering.
Handle observability, monitoring, and maintenance system for constant view of state and health of the system for utilization by L1, L2 and L3 support.
Provide level 3 support for systems worked on.

The Right Candidate Will Have
2+ years of experience in designing, developing, and delivering service solutions within a complex environment, possessing expert-level skills in three or more of the following areas:
Core Banking Solutions
Channels Platforms (Mobile, Call Center, Branches, Online Banking, etc.)
ETL Software, Data Warehouse, etc.
Service-Oriented Architectures
Mainframe Platforms
Real-time systems
Proficiency in two or more common software development languages such as Java, C#, C++, Python
Experience with event-based programming and streaming
Experience integrating new technology and platforms with legacy systems
Self-sufficient in dev and test with containers and/or cloud services for prototyping upstream systems
Possess an automate everything mindset, from CI/CD based deployment to team collaboration
Familiar with DevOps toolchain, i.e. BitBucket, JIRA, Jenkins Pipeline, Artifactory or Nexus
Experienced in iterative/agile team management including transformation at scale
Bachelor's degree in computer science or related field, or equivalent professional experience
Comfortable with being the "go-to" person for the hard technical challenges that others avoid
Ability to find a solution with limited guidance

Desired Knowledge, Skills, And Experience
Experience with Apache Kafka, Flink, NiFi, Hadoop, Cassandra, JanusGraph, etc
Experience converting from monolithic to microservices
Good understanding of modern, cloud-native application models and patterns

Atlassian is looking for a senior backend software engineer to join our Enterprise and Migrations team. You’ll be joining a team focused on building features for our enterprise-scale customers to enable better governance, trust, and security. Our team has a direct impact on the growth of Atlassian and is the proud owner of the Atlassian Access product. We are enabling cross-product experiences, and are committed to removing all blockers for adoption of cloud for enterprise customers.

More About You

As a backend software engineer on this team, you will work with a talented team of Product Managers, Designers, and Architects to build application-layer services encompassing backend development, monitoring, scaling and optimizing to make the administration of Atlassian products simple at Enterprise scale.

You will be empowered to drive innovation by coming up with new and exciting ideas to creatively solve issues, as well as actively look for opportunities to improve the design, interface, and architecture of Atlassian's products on the cloud.

On Your First Day, We'll Expect You To Have
Bachelor's degree in Engineering, Computer Science, or equivalent
5+ years of experience crafting and implementing highly scalable and performant RESTful micro-services
Proficiency in any modern object-oriented programming language (e.g., Java, Scala, Python, Javascript, etc.)
Fluency in any one database technology (e.g. RDBMS like Oracle or Postgres and/or NoSQL like DynamoDB or Cassandra)
Solid understanding of distributed systems and application security
Real passion for collaboration and strong interpersonal and communication skills
Broad knowledge and understanding of SaaS, PaaS, IaaS industry with hands-on experience of public cloud offerings (AWS, GAE, Azure)
Familiarity with cloud architecture patterns and an engineering discipline to produce software with quality

It’s Great, But Not Required, If You Have
Experience using AWS, Kubernetes and Docker containers
Familiarity with GraphQL, web application development and JavaScript frameworks (React, JQuery, Angular)

More About Our Benefits

Whether you work in an office or a distributed team, Atlassian is highly collaborative and yes, fun! To support you at work (and play) we offer some fantastic perks: ample time off to relax and recharge, flexible working options, five paid volunteer days a year for your favourite cause, an annual allowance to support your learning & growth, unique ShipIt days, a company paid trip after five years and lots more.

More About Atlassian

Creating software that empowers everyone from small startups to the who’s who of tech is why we’re here. We build tools like Jira, Confluence, Bitbucket, and Trello to help teams across the world become more nimble, creative, and aligned—collaboration is the heart of every product we dream of at Atlassian. From Amsterdam and Austin, to Sydney and San Francisco, we’re looking for people who want to write the future and who believe that we can accomplish so much more together than apart. At Atlassian, we’re committed to an environment where everyone has the autonomy and freedom to thrive, as well as the support of like-minded colleagues who are motivated by a common goal to: Unleash the potential of every team .

Additional Information


Job Function:

A fantastic opportunity has been made available for a top Investment Bank in NYC. My client is looking for a talented Software Engineer from a top educational background to assist the compliance engineering team in identifying malicious trading activity.


Responsibilities:

· Build and operate a suite of platforms and applications that prevent, detect, and mitigate regulatory and reputational risk across the firm.

· Have access to the latest technology and to massive amounts of structured and unstructured data.

· Leverage modern frameworks to build responsive and intuitive UX/UI and Big Data applications.

· Incorporate cutting-edge AI for automation and efficiency.

· Partner globally across multiple divisions and engineering teams to create end-to-end solutions,

· Be able to innovate and incubate new ideas,

· Learn from experts,

· Have an opportunity to work on a broad range of problems, from monitoring suspicious transactions with AI, to scaling out graph and search platforms, to visualizing patterns or behaviour in investigative and workflow UIs,

· Be responsible for designing, implementing, testing, deploying, and maintaining software systems across the full stack of products.


Experience required:

· A Bachelor's or Master's degree in Computer Science, Computer Engineering, or a similar field of study from a top university (top 20)

· Expertise in any programming language.

· Proficiency in SQL and data manipulation.

· The ability (and tenacity) to clearly express ideas and arguments in meetings and on paper.

· Experience in at least one of the following:

o  distributed systems,

o  message buses or real time processing,

o  platform engineering,

o  large-scale system design, such as on Hadoop/Hbase,

o  data mining or search,

o  information retrieval,

o  natural language processing,

o  NoSQL databases, such as MongoDB,

o  workflow design, such as with JBPM,

o  UI development with Angular or React.


CBS Interactive, a division of ViacomCBS, is the world’s largest publisher of premium digital content and a perennial top 10 Internet company. CBS Interactive’s brands span popular categories like technology, entertainment, sports, news and gaming.

Properties include the websites, apps and streaming services of the CBS Television Network such as the CBS All Access subscription service, CBS News Digital platforms including the 24/7 digital news network CBSN, and CBS Sports Digital brands including the 24-hour streaming sports news network CBS Sports HQ, as well as digital-first properties in key content verticals, including CNET, ZDNet, TVGuide.com, GameSpot, Last.fm, Metacritic and Chowhound.

Follow CBS Interactive on Twitter and Facebook.

Division Overview

DESCRIPTION:

CBSSports.com provides premium online and mobile content to the connected sports fan, including live and on-demand video, in-depth analysis, breaking news, and scores and statistics across high school, college, and pro sports. CBSSports.com is part of CBS Interactive's portfolio of multiplatform brands, which includes premier Fantasy offerings, high school sports leader MaxPreps, 247Sports, Scout and CBS Interactive Advanced Media producing more than 130 official collegiate athletic sites.

Role Details

We are seeking a highly motivated software engineer to join our high performing video engineering team. This role will be responsible for the creation and execution of the consumer facing video products for CBS Sports Digital brands.

Your Day-to-Day
Support and enhance core software infrastructure that powers our products
Development of a cloud architecture and interface that is utilized by an internal video operations team
Designing scalable API endpoints for use by 3rd parties
Coordinate with various internal and external business and technical stakeholders to execute on the overall platform development strategy


Key Projects
Enhance our content management system to meet growing product demand
Implement load tested apis to power our mobile, OTT and desktop video products
Support the continued buildout of our 24/7 Sports Digital network, CBS Sports HQ
Collaborate with other CBSi teams to design and develop next-generation of CBS Sports products


What You Bring To The Team

QUALIFICATIONS:

You have -
Experience working with a microservices architecture using AWS API Gateway, AWS Lambda, and DynamoDB
Experience with JavaScript NodeJS
Experience with technologies like React.js, PHP, Python, Terraform
Experience with unit testing frameworks such as Jasmine, Mocha, JEST
Experience performing load/stress tests
5+ years experience writing REST based web services and APIs
Plays an active technical role in the planning phase of new projects and may serve as a technical lead.
Exceptional problem-solving skills and attention to detail.
Experience effectively managing projects in a cross-functional environment utilizing the above technologies
BS Computer Science, Engineering, a related technical degree, or equivalent professional experience

You might also have -
Experience working with or powering digital video is a plus.

Are you fascinated by the film and television industry? Would you like a window into Hollywood's inner workings? Would you like to solve big technical challenges that change the way entertainment professionals do their jobs?

IMDbPro, a division of IMDb, is transforming the business of entertainment and building the tools that actors, writers, producers, talent agents, studio executives, and more use on a daily basis. Our widely used product helps entertainment industry professionals easily find the information they need to excel at their jobs, manage their professional presence online, discover talent, find their next opportunity, and promote their work. IMDb is the world’s most popular and authoritative source for movie, TV, and celebrity content, reaching an audience of more than 250 million unique visitors per month.

A successful candidate will have a passion for solving interesting problems no matter where on the stack, from debugging high throughput multi-threaded applications to wrangling heaps of structured data to creating responsive, adaptive user interfaces. You will join a talented team working on scalable systems, with a bias toward open source tech and Amazon Web Services. It's a fun and fast-paced environment with an exposure to working across IMDb and Amazon businesses on a global scale. You will collaborate with fellow engineers, product & program management, marketing, and UX designers to make swift but data-driven decisions that result in high-quality products.


Basic Qualifications
2+ years of non-internship professional software development experience
Programming experience with at least one modern language such as Java, C++, or C# including object-oriented design
1+ years of experience contributing to the architecture and design (architecture, design patterns, reliability and scaling) of new and current systems.
Preferred Qualifications
Experience with Java or other object oriented languages
Champion of automated testing. Experience creating automated unit tests with mocked dependencies, system integration tests and load tests
Ability to effectively articulate and drive solutions to technical and business challenges
A desire to work cross-functionally, interfacing directly with business and product stakeholders
Master's degree in computer science or related technical discipline
Experience building distributed multi-tiered systems that feature high throughput, low latency and high availability.
Experience with cloud-based solutions, Amazon Web Services
Strong object-oriented design skills with understanding of common design paradigms
Solid oral and written communication skills (operational runbooks, technical designs, business-facing communication)
only celebrated coffee and the rich tradition, but that also brought a feeling of connection. We are known for developing extraordinary leaders who share this passion and are guided by their service to others.

Payments Technology is an exciting and fast evolving engineering group within Starbucks Technology responsible for processing billions of dollars throughout the world. Our mission is to optimize and deliver industry leading payment experiences at Starbucks and low friction consumer experiences. You will be deeply involved in design and implementation of highly available, scalable and resilient services and will partner with product owners to build new capabilities and features. The focus of this role will be on retail customer experiences and bridges cloud, data center, and in-store technologies.

As a Software Development Engineer, You Will
Develop performant, resilient, scalable, and highly available modern software.
Create innovative and impactful retail customer experiences.
Translate user requirements into technical specifications and designs.
Deliver high quality software using Agile/Kanban development methodologies.
Enable the realization of strategic initiatives and operational improvements in a large-scale enterprise environment

We’d Love To Hear From People With
4+ years of professional industry experience with software development in .NET Core / C#
Strong understanding of the payment processing industry including card-present, certification and PCI information security standards.
Experience with working on a public cloud platform such as Amazon Web Services, Azure, or Google Cloud Platform.
Familiarity with containerization and orchestration technologies such as Docker and Kubernetes.
Experience in designing and developing a significant component or feature of a scalable service.
Experience working with distributed systems and architectures, including SOA, SaaS and microservices approaches.
Strong verbal and written communications skills are a must, as well as the ability to work effectively across internal and external organizations.
Bachelor’s degree in Computer Science or related field.

Join us and be part of something bigger. Apply today!

Starbucks and its brands are an equal opportunity employer of all qualified individuals.

We are committed to creating a diverse and welcoming workplace that includes partners with diverse backgrounds and experiences. We believe that enables us to better meet our mission and values while serving customers throughout our global communities. People of color, women, LGBTQIA+, veterans and persons with disabilities are encouraged to apply.

Qualified applicants with criminal histories will be considered for employment in a manner consistent with all federal state and local ordinances. Starbucks Corporation is committed to offering reasonable accommodations to job applicants with disabilities. If you need assistance or an accommodation due to a disability, please contact us at 206-318-0660 or via email at applicantaccommodation@starbucks.com

UES, Inc. has an opportunity available for a Software Engineer to join our team working at Wright Patterson Air Force Base in Dayton, OH.

The Software Engineer will be an active and collaborative member of the ICMSE (Integrated Computational Materials Science and Engineering) Systems Development team within the Materials and Manufacturing Directorate of the Air Force Research Laboratory. The Software Engineer will primarily be responsible for developing or implementing source code for use in a variety of modern client and server-based software environments, developed within API-first design patterns, using application frameworks (Django, Flask, etc.) paired with multi-model content stores (object stores, NoSQL, etc.). Secondary duties involve designing and exploring novel technology solutions and collaborating with other team members to arrive at an agreed upon development strategy. The Software Engineer should be an independent and self-starting contributor who can take direction from a senior level developer, be able to work for extended periods (a week or longer) without regular guidance from other functions and should also understand and work efficiently within a formal Software Development Lifecycle (SDLC).

 

Requirements:

BS or MS in Computer Science, related field of study, or equivalent work experience is required
Minimum 3 years of experience developing full-stack web applications that implement MVC, MTV, or equivalent design patterns
Significant experience working with other developers and analysts in a SDLC-based team environment
Experience using git-based source code repositories
Demonstrable skills in problem solving and technology risk analysis
Demonstrable skills in oral and written communication
This position is working within a government facility and requires U.S. Citizenship
 

Additional Skills and Experience Preferred:

Experience implementing or integrating JavaScript functionality or applications (React, Vue, etc.).
Experience programming web applications using Python or Python MVC (Django or Flask).
Experience with unit testing.
Training/Experience in SQL technology.
Training/Experience in NoSQL technology.

Send InMail
Parker + Lynch is searching for multiple mid and senior level Software Engineers for one of our clients in Albuquerque, New Mexico. This role provides competitive compensation, amazing benefits, and the opportunity to work on some exciting projects! These roles require the ability to obtain a security clearance.

 

In this role, you will be responsible for:

Working collaboratively with internal and external stakeholders to gather requirements and create solutions to deliver applications that meet user needs
Developing software applications and systems to work with different aspects of satellites and sensors
Interfacing with industry experts and scientists on exciting projects using data modeling and simulations, analytics, machine learning, cloud computing, and service-oriented architecture
Working through the SDLC in its entirety to ensure accurate and timely delivery
 

To qualify for this role, you must have:

Bachelor’s degree in STEM related field, Master’s degree or PhD are preferred (4+ years of experience may be substituted in lieu of graduate degree)
4+ years of experience in related role, 8+ years of experience for senior level role
Experience in object-oriented programming in C++, Java, and Python
Experience in scientific data visualization, relational databases, image processing, digital signal processing, or hardware and software architecture
Experience with Docker, Jenkins, and other continuous delivery approaches to software development
Ability to obtain a security clearance
 
At Pearson, we’re committed to a world that’s always learning and to our talented team who makes it all possible. From bringing lectures vividly to life to turning textbooks into laptop lessons, we are always re-examining the way people learn best, whether it’s one child in our own backyard or an education community across the globe. We are bold thinkers and standout innovators who motivate each other to explore new frontiers in an environment that supports and inspires us to always be better. By pushing the boundaries of technology — and each other to surpass these boundaries — we create seeds of learning that become the catalyst for the world’s innovations, personal and global, large and small.

The Personalized Learning and Analytics team (PLA) in Pearson is responsible for software development of analytics and machine learning platforms. PLA is growing and we are looking for a new team member to help build a machine learning solution for Pearson’s Global Learning Platform (GLP). Together with a highly multi-disciplinary team of engineers, data scientists, strategic partners, product managers and subject domain experts you will work on building adaptive solutions powered by big data. You will work on a best-in-class cloud computing platform, with cutting edge big data tools at your disposal while having access to experts in education, learning design, engineering and data science.

Pearson is an Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action Employer, and a member of E-Verify. All qualified applicants, including minorities, women, veterans, and people with disabilities are encouraged to apply.

Responsibilities
Design, code, unit test, and deploy multi-tenant, highly available software components using a variety of open-source technologies
Design and Develop scalable data processing pipelines for analytical and predictive platform services
Work closely with other engineers to build, test, deploy and troubleshoot machine learning / algorithm based software
Actively participates in architecture and design meetings
Collaborate with other engineers and data scientists to find effective solutions to technical challenges
Enjoy a healthy technical debate but know how to collaboratively solve problems that move everyone forward
Communicate well in person, over email, and via instant messenger within the team and with other development teams to improve quality, advance standards, and handle issues.
Work efficiently and collaboratively in an Agile (Scrum or Kanban) team environment
Directly and meaningfully impact the experience of students, institutions, and professors
Improve and maintain internal monitoring, instrumentation, and overall visibility of our learning systems.
Be self-directed and be able to prioritize your own workload.
Be willing to learn new skills whether they are directly tied to software development, software testing, data science, analytics, server maintenance, or web application release and delivery.


Qualifications

Qualifications
The ideal candidate will be detail oriented, self-directed, self-motivated, with a strong capacity for working successfully and flexibly with members across the organization.
BSc or higher in computer science, statistics, mathematics, physical science, engineering, or a comparable related technical field
5 years of core Java development experience
Experience and practice with Java Unit testing frameworks
REST API design experience (with JSON preferred)
Experience with Unix / Linux based systems
Solid foundation in computer science, with strong competencies in OO design and architecture, basic data structure, JVM concurrency, thread-safe design, scaling out of service platforms
Easy to work with, stays confident and optimistic in the face of challenges
Good communications skills and the ability to communicate with a variety of internal and external development groups
Ability to access, manage, transfer, integrate and analyze complex datasets, especially using Spark or other map-reduce techniques


Preferred Qualifications
Good understanding of foundational statistics concepts and algorithms: linear/logistic regression, random forest, boosting, NNs, etc.
Experience with NoSQL design and / or development a plus
Experience and interest working in cloud computing platforms such as AWS
Familiarity with libraries such as Spark ML, Tensor flow, scikit-learn, MLib, DLib, Pandas or others like H2O, Databricks
Familiarity in Python or R
Experience with Maven, Debian, Jenkins, and automated deployments


Job Summary:
Our Software Engineers build state-of-the art healthcare applications that empower doctors, administrators, and patients in the healthcare delivery process. You will be responsible for the design and development of our web-based EHR and Practice Management solutions as part of an Agile software development team. All team members take responsibility for the quality and value of the software we provide to customers through continuous delivery.


Address:  2700 North Central Avenue, Phoenix, Arizona 85004


Job Responsibilities:

Collaborate with team members and stakeholders in the planning, scoping, and design of new software applications.
Design and code high traffic web applications
Learn and follow the Healthcare IT industry to develop and maintain empathy for customer needs
Assume responsibility for creating, maintaining, and modifying ongoing data architecture
Produce automated tests for developed software with reasonable test cases (includes unit, regression, integration tests where applicable).
Integrates independently deployed software components and services with the larger system.
Assist team members with project assignments, providing them guidance, implementation feedback and helping them understand our business domain.
Participate in Code Reviews and Design Reviews.
Work with the team in planning, outlining the tasks involved in a project and executing tasks assigned in a timely fashion.
Work with team to determine effective engineering solutions to meet business requirements.


Required Qualifications:

Bachelor's Degree (four-year college or technical school) preferred, Field of Study: Computer Science or related field
3 - 5 years experience in web application development
Experience in Java, SQL, and JavaScript languages
Experience in HTML5 and CSS3 development
Working knowledge of relational databases for web application use cases


Come and join Intel's Flex Solutions team as a Software Engineer.

Flex Solutions is an internal consulting group supporting Intel's product group with software engineering resources with specialized skills to help meet Intel goals.

As a Software Engineer you will have the opportunity to participate in various projects as part of product development or research. The main focus of this role will be on system-level software development, in areas such as OS kernel, firmware development, network/graphics or other I/O driver development, imaging/media development, machine learning, and computer vision development and optimization, among others.

Your Responsibilities Will Include But Not Be Limited To
Conduct or participate in multidisciplinary research.
Collaborate with design, layout and/or hardware engineers in the design, development, and utilization of productivity enhancement layout tools.
Design rule checkers, electronic data processing systems software.
Determine computer user needs.
Advise hardware designers on machine characteristics that affect software systems such as storage capacity, processing speed, and input/output requirements.
Design and develop compilers and assemblers, utility programs, and operating systems.
Respond to customer/client requests or events as they occur.
Develop solutions to problems utilizing formal education, judgement and formal software process.

Qualifications

The ideal candidate should exhibit the following behavioral traits:

Problem-solving skills
Ability to multitask
Strong written and verbal communication skills
Ability to work in a dynamic and team oriented environment
Fluent spoken and written English communication skills

You must possess the below minimum qualifications to be initially considered for this position. Preferred qualifications are in addition to the minimum requirements and are considered a plus factor in identifying top candidates.

Minimum Qualifications
Bachelor Degree in Computer Science, Computer Engineering, Electrical/Electronics Engineering or any other related field with 5+ years experience of software development; or Master degree (or higher) in Computer Science, Computer Engineering, Electrical/Electronics Engineering or any other related field with 3+ years of software development experience.
Experience in the following areas:
C/C++ programming, assembly languages, data structures, algorithms, Python or Java.
Embedded systems, microcontrollers and CPU architecture.
OS/RTOS Kernels, multi-threading programming, memory and resource management.
Hardware low-level components such as I/O's, interrupts, network communication protocols, etc.
Version control and continuous integration tools.

Preferred Qualifications

Knowledge and/or experience in the following areas is a plus:
Computer vision
Machine Learning (NLP, CV areas)
Parallel/Graphics Compute
FPGA, Verilog, OpenCL or RTL Design
Low-level Virtual Platforms for HW/SW simulation
Containers experience/knowledge (Dockers, Kubernetes, etc.)


A trusted partner. A national resource. A leader in national security space. We are THE Aerospace Corporation. A team that takes pride in our readiness to solve some of the most complex technical challenges in existence. With challenges spanning government to commercial, you’ll have the unique opportunity to work on projects that are literally evolving our nation's space and launch capabilities. We all share a common passion and aspiration – to serve a mission much bigger than ourselves. When you join our team, you’ll be part of a rare collection of thought leaders and game-changing innovators. Are you ready to launch your career?

Responsibilities

The Aerospace Corporation is seeking a Software Engineer to join our Software Implementation and Integration Department. This group is responsible for full life cycle software engineering, development, and software architecture support to the Intelligence Community (IC) including:
Providing software and system acquisition, architecting and engineering expertise, which contributes to 100% mission success
Leading and participating in software development, policy, standards, research, education, and technical community activities
Working with various phases of program and software life-cycles (e.g., formation and evaluation of requirements, systems and software architecture, design, development), and other related areas
Leading and guiding DevOps pipeline development projects
Working closely with geographically dispersed staff to provide on time deliveries of milestone critical solutions / deliverables
Providing software engineering expertise at technical interchange meetings, reviews, briefings, and personal contact with Aerospace, customer, and contractor personnel


Key Functions
Provide spacecraft engineering analytical and software support to intelligence, defense, and civil agency programs as well as internal research
Supporting research and development with software systems ranging from embedded systems to cloud computing.
Development of software infrastructure that supports DevSecOps pipelines
Be a point-of-contact for detailed technical analyses and assessments to software systems as they relate to:
Validating requirements
Assessing capabilities and margins
Identifying failure modes
Investigating issues and anomalies
Apply your knowledge and expertise and work with your Aerospace Corporation program support teammates to form recommendations and provide technical advice to intelligence, defense, and civil customers
Initiate and lead advanced complex integrated analysis and simulation projects consisting of diverse teams with additional Aerospace engineering and laboratory support

This position can be filled as a Software Engineer or Sr. Software Engineer.

Qualifications

Required Qualifications for Software Engineer
Bachelor's or advanced degree in Computer Science, Computer Engineering, Electrical Engineering, Aerospace Engineering, or related technical discipline
Active and current Top Secret/SCI security clearance
8 or more years of increasingly responsible professional engineering/scientific experience, including multi-disciplinary systems engineering and/or program management environments
Demonstrated ability to establish and maintain effective working relationships with customers
Experience with object-oriented programming, SDLC best practices, and common software Design Patterns
Ability to effectively communicate (written and verbal) and work in a team environment
Strong analytical and creative problem-solving skills
Experience in engineering modeling and analysis with computer programming of models, simulations, and/or data processing
Strong proficiency in general purpose programming languages such as Java, Python, C/C++, and/or C#


Required Qualifications For Sr. Software Engineer
Bachelor's or advanced degree in Computer Science, Computer Engineering, Electrical Engineering, Aerospace Engineering, or related technical discipline
Active and current Top Secret/SCI security clearance
12 or more years of increasingly responsible professional engineering/scientific experience, including multi-disciplinary systems engineering and/or program management environments
Demonstrated ability to establish and maintain effective working relationships with customers
Strong background in object-oriented programming, SDLC best practices, and common software Design Patterns
Ability to effectively communicate (written and verbal) and work in a team environment, including providing mentorship to junior level team members.
Strong analytical and creative problem-solving skills
Experience in engineering modeling and analysis with computer programming of models, simulations, and/or data processing
Strong proficiency in general purpose programming languages such as Java, Python, C/C++, and/or C#


Preferred
Advanced Degree in Computer Science, Computer Engineering, Electrical Engineering, Aerospace Engineering, or related discipline
AWS certifications for DevOps, Developer, Solution Architect
Demonstrated project or team leadership experience
Ability to work closely with senior Aerospace/government management
Familiarity with Linux and high-performance computing environments
Familiarity with and/or desire to learn Object Oriented programming principles, and software configuration management
Experience with Agile, SAFe Agile, DevSecOps processes

MMARY

 

Charter’s Cloud Native Engineering team is seeking a passionate, results-oriented, and innovative software engineer to join the team in the development of application platform solutions across multiple business initiatives.

 

The successful candidate needs to have a proven software development methodology background with experience in any 2 of the following: Golang, Docker, Kubernetes API, Python, DevOps, CICD. A commitment to collaborative problem solving and quality product is essential. Expect to think outside the box, solve real problems, and change how technology is used in our company. We work in a Scrum environment where it’s every team member’s responsibility to ensure SDLC best practices are followed. This role will focus on various aspects of the Kubernetes ecosystem, as well as other components of the platform.

 

Who we are- our team works on bleeding-edge technologies to create and maintain a Kubernetes ecosystem that provides a comprehensive container Platform-as-a-Service. We solve complex problems in simple ways that achieve meaningful business results. We aim to have impactful improvements to our SDLC, and operations teams.

 

Charter is looking for individuals willing to bring new technologies and processes to our team, while providing world-class support to our internal clients. We have a culture that values learning every day and being up to date on the latest technologies. Our team collaborates regularly with Application, Infrastructure, and Operations teams. You will be charged with constructing and integrating solutions with many popular Open Source technologies, internally developed applications and services.



MAJOR DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES

 

Collaborate with team members to determine best practices and customer requirements for software

 

Codes, tests, and debugs new software or makes enhancements to existing software

 

Develops applications according to specifications

 

Develop quality assurance procedures according to best practices and adherence to business and technical requirements that at least includes unit and integration testing of software to ensure proper and efficient execution.

 

Troubleshoot coding problems quickly and efficiently to ensure a productive workplace

 

Participates in code review sessions to validate adherence with development standards

 

Develops and maintains technical documentation

 

Collaborates with customers, internal and cross-departmental technical teams to identify software problems and communicate remediation plans

 

Actively pursues knowledge of new technologies in the areas of cloud native platforms and orchestration

 

Participates in continuous performance improvement sessions to discuss opportunities to improve processes or standards

 

Provides general system users and management with system analysis and feedback

 

Influences system design by identifying and recommending design and requirements needs for software enhancements

 

 

Maximizes the efficiency of the various software systems by implementing, monitoring, testing and auditing new software programs

 

 

REQUIRED QUALIFICATIONS

Skills/Abilities and Knowledge

Ability to read, write, speak and understand English

Strong Experience with container technologies, orchestration, and container deployment using Docker and Kubernetes

Proficiency in Golang programming

Proficiency in some object-orientend languages (Java, Python, etc), shell scripting and git

Experience building and scaling high-performing distributed systems

Some knowledge of network programming and cloud infrastructure

Strong knowledge of the software development lifecycle, including Scrum

Experience in Linux-based systems

Experience in AWS

Proactive approach to problem-solving

Understanding of software design patterns and principles

Ability to deal with ambiguity, uncertainty, and incomplete information when evaluating alternatives and making recommendations

Ability to work seamlessly within a team as well as manage individual tasks

Ability to learn new technologies quickly

Understanding of distributed systems and scalability challenges a plus

Ability to listen and evaluate all opinions without bias, and contribute to a common culture of excellence

 

 

Education

BA/BS in Information Technology, Computer Science, related field or equivalent work experience

 

Related Work Experience

3 to 5 years’ experience with coding, testing and design

3 to 5 years’ experience with software development methodologies



WORKING CONDITIONS

Office environment

 Duties: Design, build, and maintain business systems. Build data infrastructure, microservers, and Application Programming Interfaces (APIs) from scratch to provide a flexible payments system that seamlessly integrates into the software platforms of our customers while shielding them from fraud. Implement patterns for scale and enforce high availability. Create a SAAS payment system and fraud protection to power large online platforms. Collaborate with companies to deliver integrated payment services to their users.Minimum education and experience required: This position requires a Master's degree in Electrical and Computer Engineering, Automation, or related field of study plus three (3) years of experience in the job offered or three (3) years of experience as a Test Engineer, Automation Engineer, or related occupation. 
Skills Required: This position requires two (2) years of experience in the following skills: Python; Java; PHP; SQL; Kafka; Cassandra; Spring; gRPC; Google Cloud Platform; Micro-service; Javascript; Bootstrap; MySQL; Redis; Airflow; and AngularJS. 

You will have the opportunity to work within a team of developers on Johnson Control’s configuration software platform, Selection Navigator with responsibility for additional applications and utilities required to support this suite of software.

How You Will Do It
Design, develop, document, and implement software solutions on Selection Navigator platform in accordance with backlog specifications, ensuring completion within the planned time constraint and meeting the established objectives for quality, reliability and performance. Use judgment in suggesting adaptations or modifications where appropriate.
Analyze the impact and feasibility of change requests on existing software and implements corrective actions.
Evaluate, select, and apply standard engineering and technology principles and techniques to assigned business problems.
Provide both technical and administrative documentation in a timely manner for developed software and design models.
Provide technical input, feedback, and consultation to other internal organizations integrating to the Selection Navigator platform.
Provide assistance in investigation, analysis, and data gathering.
Will receive direction and recommendations in the application of sound practices in software development.
Review code of fellow members to provide feedback on code quality.
Provide Level 3 End User support for Selection Navigator as needed.
Work collaboratively on projects that have low to moderate impact on the business.
Ensure that results meet established needs, goals and timelines.
Adhere to the Company’s Code of Conduct and Business Ethics standards.

Job

Information Systems

Primary Location

US-OK-Norman

Organization

Bldg Technologies & Solutions

Overtime Status

Exempt

What we look for

Required
Bachelor Degree in Computer Science, Engineering, or Mathematics discipline with strong Computer Science skills or equivalent experience
5+ years preferred software development experience in C#, C++, Java, or related high level language
Front end UI development experience with proficient knowledge in MVC, JavaScript, JQuery, HTML, and CSS
Experience developing software in a SAFe Agile environment
Some experience in relational database management systems and SQL
Proficiency with Microsoft Windows operating systems and MS Office Suite programs
Familiarity with large data collections in both databases and spreadsheets
Ability to understand technical material
Demonstrated ability to work collaboratively in a team environment with engineers, analysts, designers, and software developers
Ability to work collaboratively and independently, with good organizational skills and the flexibility and adaptability to work on multiple projects with exceptional attention to detail
High degree of interpersonal skills including both oral and written communication
Ability to assimilate and implement new and emerging technologies
Preferred:
Experience with Johnson Controls selection tools and/or Selection Navigator
Proficiency with MS SQL Server
RESTful API Design
Experience with source code repositories such as SVN, SourceSafe, or VSTS

Sense is building consumer hardware and mobile/web applications to help people understand their home energy consumption, see what's going on in their homes, and ultimately reduce their energy footprint. We're serious about having a real impact on climate change.

Our product is built on cutting-edge machine learning technology that analyzes detailed electrical data in real time to figure out what devices are on and how much power they're using. The data science team at Sense is responsible for developing these algorithms, and we're looking for a data engineer to join us. Our growing fleet of energy monitors is continuously streaming high volume energy data to the cloud data pipeline that powers our production and research systems. You will be responsible for the design, development, and operation of this critical infrastructure.

The data science team is looking for a software developer who is
Excited about high-volume, realtime data and solving the challenges it poses.
Passionate about building high-availability, performant, cost-effective, and scalable systems.
Tenacious when tracking down production issues, digging into metrics and logs as needed to run a problem to the ground.


Sense is an Equal Opportunity Employer. Women, minorities, individuals with disabilities and protected veterans are encouraged to apply. Ensuring a diverse and inclusive workplace where we learn from each other is core to Sense’s values. We welcome people of different backgrounds, experiences, abilities and perspectives and are a pleasant and supportive place to work.

Requirements

What you'll do
Lead the effort to develop an infrastructure roadmap for the data science team that will allow us to
scale gracefully as our user base increases
reduce our operational costs
enhance research productivity
Design and implement new data systems and infrastructure as needed.
Analyze, maintain, and improve our existing data systems and infrastructure.
Operate our production and research systems, including automation, metrics, and alerting.


What We're Looking For
4+ years professional experience as a backend or software engineer.
Experience in deploying scalable, distributed systems.
Experience with AWS services including EC2, ECS, S3, CloudFormation, etc.
Strong programming skills in python, experience with C/C++.
Experience with relational databases such as MySQL.
Ability to quickly learn and modify existing large code bases.
Independently track multiple tasks on your own.
A proactive and clear communicator.
Must be authorized to work in the U.S.


Benefits
Be a part of building something that will make a difference in the world.
Great opportunity to gain experience at a consumer smart home startup.
Work with a small team of experienced entrepreneurs creating revolutionary technology.
A wide range of difficult and interesting problems to be solved.
Competitive compensation and benefits.
Flexible hours.
A great office in Central Square right by the Red Line, or we're open to remote work.
We are looking for a senior software engineer who is passionate about innovating and creating new products. If you like to learn by doing and want to radically redesign how the world learns, this is the team for you! You will be working on a cross-functional team with a Product Manager, UX Designer, DevOps Engineer, Machine Learning Engineers, and Data Scientists. You’ll be part of a team that is user focused, has a mentality for experimentation, and iterates quickly. This person will be focusing on front end developing using tools like JavaScript and React.

Ways We Work
Autonomous & responsible teams - making their own product & dev choices (https://www.pluralsight.com/tech-blog/team-responsibilty)
Data first - we work with large volumes of data to build scalable solutions for our products
Software Craftsmanship - we want to be proud of our work
Pair programming - we value collaborative development
Test-driven development - we take responsibility for our code without QA engineers
Continuous delivery - teams independently ship code to production every day
Kanban & Lean - no more backlog grooming, no more T-shirt size estimating
Continual improvement - we hold weekly retrospectives in order to assess and improve system processes

What We Create With
Backend - Node.js/Python
Testing - Mocha/Pytest
Declarative UI - React
Styling - CSS Modules <3
Messaging - RabbitMQ
Database - PostgreSQL
Source Control - Github
Frameworks - Airflow/TensorFlow
Working at Pluralsight

Founded in 2004 and trusted by Fortune 500 companies, Pluralsight is the technology skills platform organizations and individuals in 150+ countries count on to create progress for the world.

Our platform helps technologists master their craft and take control of their careers. We empower businesses everywhere to build adaptable teams, speed up release cycles and become scalable, reliable and secure. We come to work everyday knowing we’re helping our customers build the skills that power innovation.

And we don’t let fear, egos or drama distract us from our mission. Our mission to democratize technology skills is what drives us and our values are at the helm of how we work together. It’s our commitment to practicing them day in, day out that enables our performance. We’re adults, and we treat each other that way. We have the autonomy to do our jobs, transparency to eliminate office politics and trust each other to do the right thing. We thrive in an environment with creativity around every corner, challenges that keep us on our toes, and peers who inspire us to be the best we can be. We bring different viewpoints, backgrounds and experiences, and united by our mission, we are one.

Bring yourself. Pluralsight is an equal opportunity employer. All qualified applicants will receive consideration for employment without regard to race, color, religion, gender, gender identity or expression, sexual orientation, national origin, genetics, disability, age or veteran status.
PathAI is looking for entry level candidates for this year to join our organization as a Software Engineer. In this role, you will be an integral part of a cross functional team building cutting edge software for faster, more accurate diagnosis of disease. We're applying our work to drug development and the clinical space as we work towards becoming the world’s computational pathologist.

PathAI is applying Machine Learning, Computer Vision, and AI in amazing ways to advance the field of pathology and healthcare into the digital age. As a member of our product engineering team, you will work through unique challenges involving high performance web-based digital pathology to deliver rich data visualizations, allowing doctors and pathologists access to PathAI's keen insights.

Role

While we’re always looking to improve, in this role, those tools currently include

We're looking for entry level engineers to join our team and help lay the groundwork for our growing software platform. We believe in using the best tool for the job.
Python/Django
Django REST framework
PostgreSQL
VueJS

We're always welcoming an expansion of this toolset, and we appreciate engineers that use their experience in other technologies to expand our horizons.

If you're the right candidate, you'll be exercising all the skills you have and building new ones along the way:
Solve interesting problems with code.
Build new features for internal and external users, and refactor existing ones to make them better.
Work with a wide range of systems, processes, and technologies to solve problems in sustainable ways. Sometimes you'll be neck-deep in low-level systems, and other times you'll be pairing up with the front-end team on the user interface.
Drive the architecture of our application platform, considering the team and our future product roadmap.
Collaborate with product, design, front-end, machine learning, and infrastructure teams.
Drive and uphold high engineering standards, bringing consistency to the codebases you encounter and ensuring software is adequately reviewed, tested, and integrated.
Mentor, learn, and share knowledge with others along the way.


Requirements

Our employees come in all shapes and sizes, but to be successful in this role with us, you'll at least need:
Experience. This may be your first time role, but you have applicable knowledge through projects/internships/co-ops
Aesthetic. Your main tool may be code, but you should have a keen design eye and an ability to make strong design decisions in a pinch.
Education. Generally, a bachelor's degree is really helpful in working with our team on this kind of work. But feel free to convince us if you're the exception.
An insatiable intellectual curiosity and the ability to learn quickly in a complex space

Are you looking for a mid-level position where you have the flexibility to distill complex problems into best-in-class client-facing solutions? Would you like to learn and expand your experience and knowledge of modern programming languages and software?
As a Senior Software Development Engineer, you will become part of WMC Global's collaborative work culture. In this role, you will gain experience 1) developing customer-focused, value-added features for our proprietary platforms, 2) ingesting and normalizing data from multiple sources, and 3) work with Python, React, Linux (Ubuntu), MySQL, and AWS (EC2, SQS, etc.).

In This Role, You Wiill
Write clean and maintainable code that conforms to best practices
perform peer code reviews
Investigate, explore, and employ architectural principles and approaches to deliver best-in-class products
Collaborate and evaluate on prototyping new technologies
Work in a fast-paced Agile/Scrum environment
Work closely with local, remote, and international teams
Job Requirements

OUR IDEAL CANDIDATE HAS:
Associate's degree in computer science or related field of study.
2
years' experience as a Software Engineer or Software Developer
Demonstrated proficiency in, at least, one modern programming language such as Java, C#, and Python
Demonstrated experience using at least one JavaScript framework (Angular JS, React JS, etc.)
Experience using at least one relational database (MySQL, SQL Server, PostgreSQL, etc.)
Strong analytical skills and excellent problem-solving skills
Good understanding of fundamental programming concepts like object-oriented design, algorithms, and data structures
Desired Qualification (non-essential)
Bachelor’s or Master's degree in Computer Science, Computer Engineering (can be replaced with work experience)
5
years of industry experience as a Software Engineer or Software Developer
Experience developing complex software systems that have successfully been delivered to customers
Experience with data integrity, regression, performance testing
Strong interest in machine learning software systems and big data software systems.
Requisition ID:** 39

Cisco’s Cable Business Unit has the industry's most complete product portfolio of CMTS routers, Remote PHY devices, HFC components, and related SDN applications. We continue to be the market leader in cable related technology development, and in product breadth and market share. We are also one of the most active participants in defining cable related industry standards in collaboration with CableLabs.

Our Cable team in San Jose is currently responsible for the architecture, the design, and development of the next generation cloud CMTS product called cnBR. Much of this system is built utilizing an open source cloud native architectural components (Microservices, Kubernetes, Docker, Kafka, Cassandra, etc) and will run on any generic server HW platform running Linux Host OS. The team is working on an end-to-end solution spanning cloud native infrastructure, Orchestration, Automation, Telemetry, Health monitoring, DOCSIS control and data plane, etc. You will be part of a dynamic team working on the leading edge of the cloud-based CMTS product.

What You'll Do

Develop SW on Cloud CMTS, Health Monitoring Applications, and SDN related applications, etc
Develop python based automation for CI/CD and Go based white-box unit testing for increasing code coverage
Deploy and maintain Linux-based servers / testbeds for Cloud CMTS code development and testing
Contribute to generating engineering and user-end documentations, functional and design specifications, test plans, etc
Follow Agile development methodology and contribute to continuous improvements in quality and timely delivery of our products
Who You Are

Have strong programming understanding with Go, Java, and/or C/C++
Have Python programming experience
Have good understanding of communications network and protocols
Have some exposure in cloud technologies
Have strong verbal and written communication skills

ur Platform

Founded in 1979, Activision has continuously disrupted the world of entertainment as a leader in the videogame industry. With a history of delivering iconic game changers -- like Pitfall, Tony Hawk, Guitar Hero, Crash Bandicoot, Skylanders and Call of Duty -- our obsession is delighting our players around the globe. Focused and committed to innovation, we consistently deliver the most beloved, engaging and successful entertainment.

And while we have world-class franchises, infrastructure and resources, our success comes from a passionate, talented and diverse team of people producing greatness together. So, if youre interested in our biggest priority, its our people.

Were currently driving the next era for our company and community by creating amazing experiences for fans and continuing to make Activision an inclusive place where everyone can thrive.

Join us, make history. To learn more, check us out at www.activision.com, www.activisiongamesblog.com or @Activision on Instagram, Twitter, Facebook and LinkedIn.

Your Mission

As a Personalization Software Engineer you will work within the Consumer Technology group to build innovative and impactful AI driven applications and tools that help to build loyalty and drive engagement across Activision game titles. Candidates should have development and implementation experience of large-scale personalization systems.

Responsibilities

Priorities can often change in a fast-paced environment like ours, so this role includes, but is not limited to, the following responsibilities
Build real-time decision engines and personalization systems leveraging A/B testing, rules, and machine learning that drive communications and content in and around Activision games.
Develop ML-driven highly personalized experiences within mobile and web applications
Work with high volumes of data in both relational and NoSQL data stores
Develop large-scale AI driven player engagement platforms that support our live game services across channels including in-game, mobile, and web
Work in a collaborative environment with some pretty cool people, and HUGE amounts of data

Year 1 Success
Deliver scalable, high-volume, high-availability player engagement platform.
Increase velocity and operability by building and delivering phase one of M/L platform in partnership with analytics and data teams

Player Profile

Minimum Requirements
Experience in a software engineering/development environment
Proven experience in prototyping, evaluating, development and delivery of AI, Data Science, Deep Machine Learning, or Neural Networks
Experience with high-volume consumer facing software systems, including developing highly scalable distributed systems.
Strong Object Oriented Programming skills and proficiency in languages like Java, Python, Golang, Scala or similar
Solid CS background including concurrent programming, system architecture principles, and data structures.
Experience developing high-volume data processing applications
Experience working in agile environment
Self-starter who is excited about learning new technologies. Ability to work independently, learn quickly and be proactive
Experience with AWS, Redshift, and S3 a plus.
Experience working in test driven development.
Bachelor's Degree in Computer Science or related field

Our World

Activision Blizzard, Inc. (NASDAQ: ATVI), is one of the world's largest and most successful interactive entertainment companies and is at the intersection of media, technology and entertainment. We are home to some of the most beloved entertainment franchises including Call of Duty, World of Warcraft, Overwatch, Diablo, Candy Crush and Bubble Witch. Our combined entertainment network delights hundreds of millions of monthly active users in 196 countries, making us the largest gaming network on the planet!


Do you want to share your passion for technology? Are you looking for your next challenge? Join the AWS Learning Services engineering team in building the next generation of learning systems that will reach millions of our customers and partners as they grow their AWS skillset. We are constantly evolving our capabilities to deliver the best learning experience to enable our customers in their journey as they gain technical expertise.

As a Software Development Engineer, your role will be to bring your software development skills to the forefront as you help bring our learning tools to the next level of customer delight. You will work within a team to create new, cloud-native services and capabilities to meet emerging needs as our business grows. You will operate existing systems at AWS scale to ensure they meet and exceed our high standards for security, operational excellence and scalability. You and your team will be in the unique position of developing systems using the same modern AWS technology we enable our customers to learn. You will work with some of the best and brightest as you grow your career in a group of junior through senior level developers.

Responsibilities
Design, develop, and operate high scale applications from the backend to UI layer, focusing on operational excellence, security and scalability.
Apply modern software development practices (serverless computing, microservices architecture, CI/CD, infrastructure-as-code, etc.)
Work across teams to integrate our systems with existing internal Amazon and AWS services
Participate in technology roadmap and architecture discussions to turn business requirements and vision into reality.
Participate in a tight-knit engineering team employing agile software development practices.

Basic Qualifications
BS in Computer Science or related field; or equivalent experience
Demonstrated understanding of CS fundamentals (algorithms, data structures, networking, distributed systems, etc.)
Proficient in software development with at least one modern language such as Java, C#, Python, or Node.js, including object-oriented design
Ability to write logical, maintainable code
Preferred Qualifications
Passion for building and operating highly-available services
Experience developing cloud-native applications using AWS or other cloud providers
Experience building RESTful web services
Experience in web development with HTML5, JQuery, React.
Comfortable in fast-paced, start-up like development environments
Amazon.com is an Equal Opportunity-Affirmative Action Employer – Minority / Female / Disability / Veteran / Gender Identity / Sexual Orientation/ Age

At Donut we believe people should be engaged and happy at work, and we are building tools to help every company make that a reality. Donut allows managers, HR, and company leaders to easily and effectively take advantage of the best practices recommended by the likes of Google, Deloitte, and HBR. We believe HR technology has failed to keep pace with our understanding of how to motivate, engage, and retain the talented people who make every company successful. Donut is already being used by amazing companies that realize the importance of empathy and connection at work, like IBM, Slack, Buffer, InVision, and NASA.

Donut’s founders came together over a shared passion for great company culture and a desire to make work great for everyone — and we are building a company that embodies these ideals while also instilling them in others. We started by building Slack bots to transform the way companies build their culture — including new-employee onboarding and the building of connections within organizations.

The Opportunity
Join a small collaborative startup team
Make significant contributions to every aspect of the product and business
Work on all sides of the technical stack
Work closely with Slack, and help build one of the most prominent bots in their growing ecosystem

Responsibilities
Develop product features end to end
Solve technical problems in collaboration with other engineers on the team
Prioritize tasks within your project, including knowing when to seek help
Help Donut grow in every way you can

Qualifications
You have experience building web applications, preferably in a professional environment.
You're comfortable with functional or imperative programming languages — e.g. Ruby, Python, Go, C++, or Java.
You're familiar with front-end technology — e.g. JavaScript, HTML, and CSS.
You write understandable, testable code with an eye towards maintainability.
You are a strong communicator. Explaining complex technical concepts to designers, support, and other engineers is no problem for you.
You can participate in technical architecture discussions and help drive technical decisions.
You have a bachelor's degree in Computer Science, Engineering or related field, or equivalent training, fellowship, or work experience.
You possess strong computer-science fundamentals: data structures, algorithms, programming languages, distributed systems, and information retrieval.
You are eager to learn and make an impact.
Hulu is the leading premium streaming service offering live and on-demand TV and movies, with and without commercials, both in and outside the home. Operating at the intersection of entertainment and technology, Hulu has a unique opportunity to be the number one choice for TV. We captivate and connect viewers with the stories they love, and we’re looking for people who are passionate about redefining TV through innovation, unconventional thinking, and embracing fun. Join us and see what Hulugan life is all about.

Summary

Hulu’s Subscription Lifecycle team is seeking a Software Developer who will be an exceptional addition to our Tech team. As a Software Developer at Hulu, you will learn more about the Subscription Lifecycle by understand the complex Subscription, Billing, Payments and Partnership Platforms. The right person for this role is a strong Software Developer who is interested in tackling challenging problems. If you are someone who enjoys cross-team collaboration, then this is a great role for you.

What You'll Do
Serve as a catalyst for leading Agile transformation on the team
Work closely with Product owners and Technical program managers
Developing a scalable API integration layers
End to end ownership of backend services
Build robust and scalable micro-services that integrate with Hulu's core services and provide a full billing integration
Define technical and operational critical metrics to measure health
Challenge our team and software to be even better

What To Bring
BS or MS in Computer Science or equivalent work experience
3+ years of relevant software engineering experience
Proficiency with at least one of the following languages: Java, Scala, or Python
Experience with Agile and Scaled Agile methodologies
Excellent communication, collaboration skills and a strong teamwork ethic
The ability to jump into a project and contribute immediately to both architecture and implementation
Strive for excellence and strong analytical skills
NICE-TO-HAVES
Experience with non-relational database technologies (MongoDB, Cassandra, DynamoDB)
AWS

Core Services Engineering builds and manages the critical products and services that Microsoft runs on. We boldly pursue big ideas that power transformational advances at Microsoft and for our customers, while helping Microsoft teams work smarter, faster and more securely every day. Core Services Engineering employees have deep technical and business expertise, customer insights, and a clear point of view that comes from first-hand, large-scale experience with Microsoft and industry solutions. We are engineers, technology leaders and experts, digital transformation change agents, and customer advocates.

We have exciting opportunities for you to innovate, influence, transform, inspire and grow within our organization and we encourage you to apply to learn more!

Responsibilities

Are you passionate about delivering solutions to help Microsoft’s customers, and do you love to solve challenging problems through innovative engineering of end-to-end customer experience solutions? Are you naturally curious, deeply technical, and have experience building products and services? Do you want an agile and collaborative environment where you can tackle challenges that deliver immediate and measurable business impact? Microsoft Core Platform Engineering is at the forefront of creating innovative solutions based on Modern Engineering principles across a variety of channels, allowing our customers to get the support they need, when they need it, for any of Microsoft’s products and services!

We are looking for candidates who can think broadly, collaborate well, pick up and contribute to a broad range of technologies, and generally want to have fun enabling enterprise customers to leverage technology to be their most efficient and effective in their business.

Qualifications

Successful candidates will exhibit various attributes which will enhance their ability to succeed in these various positions.
Collaboration - As most development is about working with others, both within an immediate team, as well as across business units and portions of the company, an ability to collaborate effectively is a core competency to have.
Customer Focus - A focus on delivering customer value and being able to directly tie engineering decisions and actions to that value is a huge plus for successful engineers at any level.
Drive For Results - Being able to drive for results, not merely finding the boundary of your responsibility, but following a problem through to its conclusion, to solve it once and for all, is a skill and ability which a successful engineer should exhibit.
Qualified candidates Must Have Already Successfully Completed or Participated in the Year Up Program and worked in a software engineering, program management, or business program management environment.
Current MSFT Year Up Apprentice Experience

Thycotic, a global leader in IT security, is the fastest growing provider of Privileged Access Management solutions that protect an organization’s most valuable assets from cyber-attacks and insider threats. Our mission is to make self-sufficient security champions, by making security tools people love to use that make privilege management achievable for everyone.

The Results Show

We have over 10,000 customers worldwide ranging from mid-sized organizations to Fortune 100 companies and are adding hundreds of new customers every quarter.
We are growing at twice the rate of the overall PAM market (50% vs 25%).
We are among Inc. 5000 Fastest Growing Companies six years in a row.

Position Summary

Working as Senior Software Engineer at Thycotic means being a part of a highly capable, collaborative and agile developers. Thycotic is creating awesome software that's used by thousands of IT professionals all over the globe.

This can be a remote/telecommute position based out of your home office. Reports to the Software Development Team Lead.

Key Responsibilities
Be a fully contributing member of a Thycotic Sprint team.
Work specifically on projects for our flagship product, Secret Server.

Skills And Requirements
5 years+ experience in C#, ASP.NET , HTML, MS SQL Server, Javascript, JQuery and related technologies. Strong design skills and full software development lifecycle experience required.
Experience with front end JavaScript libraries such as Angular is a BIG plus.
Strong understanding of Object-Oriented principles, the .NET Framework, ASP.NET , relational databases, and web application development.
Passionate about writing quality code and constantly honing your development skills.
Ability to quickly read and understand both new and existing code.
Ability to look at the big picture, come up with great new ideas, but also execute those ideas and write the code to make it happen.
Seeking a highly collaborative, flat environment--there's not a lot of hierarchy or red tape here.
Experience with large codebases and unit testing -- mock frameworks, web testing, database testing, etc.
Desire to develop using Test Driven Development.
Comfortable developing using pair programming.

SUMMARY:The Software Engineer I develops and supports customized remote sensing basedproduction applications, web applications, and scripting solutions.Responsibilities include architecting, developing procedures, developingscripts to facilitate the production, display, editing, storage, andsale of geospatial data. Additional duties include testing, documenting,and maintaining software applications.ESSENTIAL FUNCTIONS:Analyzes, designs, implements, tests, documents, and maintainssoftware applications.Evaluates software requests for feasibility, level of effort, andcompatibility with existing systems.Consults with internal and external customers to provide technical assistanceand gather requirements.Develops and tests software components written in various languages,including, but not limited to Ruby, Ruby on Rails, Java Script,C++. C#, Java, and Python.Deploys and maintains web applications.Evaluates and integrates potential third party libraries and controls forusability.Reviews and modifies source code from other developers.Develops new software engineering skills as required for projects.Supports and maintains documentation of software processes.Possess and understand Agile development methodologies and the role oftesting.Other Duties as assigned.EDUCATIONAssociate's Degree in computer science, geospatial sciences, or relatedfield or equivalent experience.

Bachelor's degree preferred.EXPERIENCEThree years software engineering experience.Minimum of two years' experience with Ruby on Rails.Experience with deploying web applications in a production environment usingtools such as, Nginx or Apache. IIS experience is a plus.Experience with at least one other development framework. Java is a plus.Working knowledge and experience with jQuery and Backbone.js (or similarframework)Experience with relational databases, such as PostgreSQL and SQL Server 2008.Design, develop, test and implement REST APIs for use in softwareapplications.GitHub usage experienceNice-To-Haves: Cloud Experience (GCP/AWS), SQL/NoSQL experience(MongoDB, MYSQL, SQL Server, etc.)Data Science experience and/or geometry background.Supervisory Responsibilites: NonePosition: Full-Time Location: Colorado SpringsSalary Range: 55-70k annuallyLocation: Colorado Springs, COSanborn offers a comprehensive health and wellness program which includesmedical, dental, vision, 401k, holiday, PTO, EAP, disability andlife insurance benefits.TO APPLY: Visit our website: www.Sanborn.com to apply for this position.Sanborn is an Equal Opportunity Employer.Sanborn is an Equal Opportunity Employer/AA/Vet/Disability

Are you an engineer who wants to build blue sky products in the data analytics space? Are you excited about helping people to see and understand their data? We are looking for an experienced Full-Stack Developer to join our team to build new data-as-a-platform capabilities. The team’s main focus is enabling customers to securely share their data. We're looking for a person who shares our belief that the best product is simple, beautiful, and easy to use - and that our customers deserve the absolute best experience using our products. As a Senior Software Engineer, you will play a key role in designing new features and architectural patterns.

Some of the things you’ll be doing include …
Designing and developing web interfaces and services
Providing technical guidance and support to a vibrant engineering team
Collaborating with developers and test engineers across the company
Innovating our code base and technologies
Working in a fast paced, agile environment


Who You Are…
Experienced. You have 2+ years of experience designing and implementing high performance distributed systems and solving complex problems in this space. You understand what it takes to write software that is used by thousands or millions of people.
Highly Technical . Bachelor's degree in Computer Science or equivalent. You have solid development skills with Java, TypeScript, React/Redux and ideally some experience with C++.
Relentlessly High Standards. You believe in automation and writing tests for your own code as a way of maintaining high quality in your products. You love writing things that “just work” – things that are robust, scalable, and that perform well.
Self-motivated. You take initiative and drive your projects to success.
A True Team Player. You enjoy collaborating, learning from or teaching others so we can all become better developers.
You are a Recruiter! Tableau hires company builders and, in this role, you will be asked to be on the constant lookout for the best talent to bring onboard to help us continue to build one of the best companies in the world!

Tableau Software is an Equal Opportunity Employer.

 software
 Are you interested in working on the next generation of collaboration software? Our goal at Quip is to build a new class of productivity tool that every person at every company enjoys using every single day. What we’re looking for: a software engineering generalist who’s passionate and cares deeply about product development.

At Quip, our engineers are always learning new things — we all work cross-platform and full-stack. We pride ourselves on writing high-quality code and maintainable systems that make our lives easier, across Javascript, C++, Python, Java, and Objective-C. Every engineer works on exciting, meaningful projects that impact our technical and product strategy.

We work closely with Product Managers and Designers to define new features, and help map the future of Quip. We’re building the next generation of products leveraging frameworks, such as React, and tackling complex problems related to large-scale backend infrastructure and mobile platforms. We’re building a team of talented, thoughtful people who will work together to build an enduring company that will change the way teams work together.

What we look for:
Excellent software engineering talent
Knowledge of Python, Objective-C, Javascript, SQL, C++, Java, or the ability to learn them quickly
Experience with web applications, databases, distributed systems, or mobile development is a plus
Passion for learning and working with others to improve yourself, the team, the product, the company

What you'll do:
Building consumer-level applications (mobile, web, desktop) for enterprise - with a focus on design and usability
Solving complex challenges such as performance, scalability, and security
Growing and scaling our product and servers, applying the latest technologies and best practices
Mentoring your peers or be mentored by your peers in various in-house mentorship
Learn to make great and not so great puns

Who you'll work with:

We are a group of talented, empathetic people from various backgrounds where trust and teamwork are a given. We pride ourselves in thoughtful communication and individual ownership. We push hard to make Quip better everyday while maintaining a healthy balance to leave time for our hobbies, family, pets, or whatever else is important.

What it's like to work here:
We provide small company impact combined with Salesforce generous benefits
Most employees (including our founder) leave by 5:30pm
We seek out opportunities to send people to training for both technical and leadership skills
We actively work on ways to be more inclusive in our culture and in our hiring
Currently, 30% of our engineers are women
Regular team charity outings, plus 7 days of volunteer time off (VTO) per year
Backend Engineer

The Backend Engineer role provides you with a unique opportunity to join a high growth, startup software company as we pivot into a record-breaking 3rd year. We are looking for a strong individual contributor with at least three years of experience working with Python applications. As a Backend Engineer you’ll have the opportunity to work shoulder to shoulder with the smartest developers in the industry. This is your chance to hone your skills with enterprise class Python application development. 


What you will do when you get here:

Write high quality, clean and efficient code

Provide timely support to both internal and external users of the system

Participate in brainstorming sessions with the engineering team and contribute ideas to our technology and algorithms

Ensure that design is architecturally sound and follows engineering best practices with regards to scalability, maintainability, and reuse

What you need to have:

BS/MS/ Ph.D. in Computer Science or a related field

Production experience in Software Development (Minimum 3 years preferred)

Knowledge of relational databases (e.g. PostgreSQL, MySQL) and NoSQL databases (e.g MongoDB)

Expertise with Object Oriented Design and Programming

Expertise coding python

Experience developing cloud-based services a plus

Hands-on experience with agile development methodologies a plus

The Battle.net & Online Products organization is home to 300+ superpowered engineers, program managers, and designers focused on the technology that powers Blizzard Entertainment’s games. Whether you’re playing one of our titles, chatting with friends, or just shopping online, B&OP ensures that our players are immersed in engaging, exciting, and secure experiences.

As a Software Engineer, you will play a pivotal role in developing Blizzard products by contributing new features and optimizations to the architecture, tools and development workflow of our Content Platform, the system that powers news, patch notes, comics and forums across dozens of Blizzard websites, apps, and internal systems. You’ll work side-by-side with other framework maintainers and feature contributors, helping to drive stability, performance, testing and maintainability through consultation and code review.

If you’re right for this role, you’re an expert at building scalable web platforms, applications, tools and build processes, and have a strong sense for design and UX. You’re also an effective communicator, ready to collaborate with numerous partners to help make content creation and consumption as epic as possible. Ultimately, you’ll help the team overcome some of our most unusual, vital challenges: rapidly growing our digital experiences and unlocking Blizzard content for millions of users.

Responsibilities
Collaborate with members of the team to build balanced, performant, and maintainable technologies and code.
Contribute to architectural, design, and process discussions around the technological choices involved in building the Content Platform.
Identify and uphold engineering standard methodologies.
Champion Blizzard Entertainment’s core values.

Requirements
A degree in Computer Science, a related Engineering discipline, or equivalent experience.
1-2+ years experience working on large-scale Node.js or Java applications.
Experience shipping multiple web applications.
Experience working with build pipelines, such as Jenkins.
Strong analytical problem-solving skills.
Architectural experience crafting highly-scalable REST APIs.
Experience with using containerization in production applications, such as Docker.
Operational experience with public cloud, such as AWS.
Pluses
A proven understanding of standard methodologies and techniques in web scalability, performance, and security
Experience writing JavaScript applications with Typescript
Experience with React.js and Redux
Experience writing Java applications with the Spring Framework
Understanding and experience with container orchestration & management platforms, such as Kubernetes
Real passion for Blizzard games is a huge plus

Come join the development team of the JAX Clinical Knowledgebase (CKB).  CKB is a dynamic digital resource for interpreting complex cancer genomic profiles and is used by clinicians and researchers from around the world to connect cancer variants to therapies and clinical trials. Come be a part of the fight against Cancer!

 

This position is available immediately for a Scientific Software Engineer (Associate/Full/Senior) with a large focus on data science, as a part of the Computational Sciences Scientific Computing group at The Jackson Laboratory for Genomic Medicine in Farmington, CT. Play a pivotal role in investigating potential integration opportunities as well as helping to lead the effort to translate those opportunities into mature software solutions. Use your skills to propose, analyze, prototype new solutions as well as run novel analysis over the existing systems. Leverage NLP, ML and AI to develop novel approaches to help streamline curation as well as add additional value to existing data. This is an exciting opportunity to work on challenging problems at the interface of biology, computer science and data science. CKB is a leading cancer knowledgebase, with partners around the world integrating CKB data, join the team and help push CKB to the next level.


Responsibilities

Help lead efforts to evaluate opportunities for integrating data and enabling CKB to synergistic link to relevant data
Analyze existing highly structured and semi-structured data and look for opportunities to add additional value
Prototype and lead R&D around leveraging NLP, ML and AI for empowering curation workflows and ensuring CKB can efficiently structure complex cancer data

Qualifications

The ideal candidate will have:

A BS, MS or PhD in computer science, bioinformatics, biology, or significant related experience
A strong molecular biology background will be a big plus
Strong knowledge of Linux and Mac environments
Languages: Java, Groovy, Python, JavaScript, SQL, R and Machine Learning
Database: MySQL, noSQL
Experience with operational tools such as Git, JetBrains IDE products (PyCharm, Idea), CI Tools such as Jenkins or Bamboo, Atlassian Suite
Excellent oral and written communication skills
Strong desire to work collaboratively with peers
technologies.


About us:

Imubit, a Houston-based startup backed by Silicon Valley Venture Capital, has invented a new machine learning paradigm for process industries. The company was founded by world-class machine learning scientists, globally renowned in process manufacturing, and serial entrepreneurs. Our clients are among the largest global energy, refining, and chemical operators.


We are looking for:

You, a resourceful, proactive, and hard-working software developer with 3+ years of coding in C++, C#, Python or Java expertise! You are a computer science professional with previous experience working in Windows-based environments, looking to transcend your career. You appreciate a working environment that is powered by new technologies, years ahead of others in the industry. You are passionate about working in an environment that promotes sharing ideas and supporting and mentoring your teammates. You are a self-motivated, well-organized, strong communicator who loves learning new domains. You recognize a once-in-a-career opportunity and seize it.


In this position you will:

Liaison between global software and process teams to communicate updates to our technology and troubleshoot concerns
Understand and support Machine Learning inquires
Write production code and supplementing scripts on Windows-based environments
Own entire components of our application, including code, testing, and CI/CD
Provide Tier-2 support for customers

It would be nice if you had experience with:

Low-level communication protocols
Industrial automation
Commitment to our customers, collaboration, and continuous improvement in a positive environment are more than words written on a wall at Invoca, it’s our way of life. We take pride in an inclusive and egoless culture that helps us drive innovation and build value for both our customers and our people. And of course, there’s the competitive pay, great perks, and getting to work on an industry-leading product. If this sounds unlike most tech jobs you’ve had, you’re right. Come join us. We’re building something special.

We have proudly been recognized by INC Magazine with the Best Workplaces award two years in a row! Read more about this achievement and what makes us special here: https://www.invoca.com/press/invoca-recognized-as-an-inc-magazine-best-workplace-for-the-second-consecutive-year/

About The Engineering Team

You’ll join a team where everyone, including you, is striving to constantly improve their knowledge of software development tools, practices, and processes. We are an incredibly supportive team. We swarm when problems arise and give great feedback to help each other grow. Working on our close-knit, cross-functional teams is a great chance to share and grow your knowledge of different domains from databases to front ends to telephony and everything in between.

We are passionate about many things: continuous improvement, working at a brisk but sustainable pace, writing resilient code, maintaining production reliability, paying down technical debt, hiring fantastic teammates; and we love to share these passions with each other.

Learn more about the Invoca development team on our blog at blog and check out our open source projects at open source projects.

About The Role

Are you looking to work with smart people who are as committed to building great teams as they are to building great products? Invoca offers a unique opportunity to make massive contributions to our production SaaS platform and cloud infrastructure. You will participate in the technical leadership of a team that is directly responsible for the roadmap, development, and maintenance of several Invoca services while upholding high standards via modern agile methodologies: test-driven development, continuous deployment, and DevOps.

You are excited about this opportunity because you get to:
Work on a team (and occasionally cross team) to implement solutions to challenging problems, including:
Machine learning
Scalable and reliable SOA web applications
Responsive user interfaces
High performance REST and GraphQL APIs
Large scale data warehouses
Highly scalable and reliable VoIP telephony
Provide technical mentorship, code reviews, and technical project leadership for your team
Identify and drive the adoption of new technologies, best practices, and design patterns in your team
Use metrics and your team’s collective experience to drive development decisions
Share your passion for learning about technical topics with your team and peers


About You

We are excited about you because you have:
A minimum of 1.5 years experience with some of our core technologies: Ruby on Rails (or similar), MySQL, and HTML/CSS/JavaScript.
A systematic problem-solving approach, coupled with strong communication skills and a sense of ownership and drive.
Knowledge of Object Oriented Programming, Test Driven Development, and MVC design.
A desire to create elegant, scalable, and maintainable tools and solutions.

At Capital Group, how we work is defined by shared values that include absolute integrity, respect and collaboration. But it’s more than that. It’s smart and highly driven people united in purpose to serve our investors and one another.

Bring your energy and unique perspective to Capital and you’ll have the opportunity to grow with us professionally, personally, and financially. You’ll be part of a team that genuinely cares about helping you succeed. You’ll work alongside talented colleagues, many of whom build long careers while progressing through multiple roles, establishing lifelong friendships and making a difference in our communities. In return for your contributions, you’ll receive premier compensation and benefits, and a company-funded retirement plan that ranks among the most generous.

The Technical Services / Client Engineering department, responsible for designing, implementing, integrating and supporting a variety of the organization’s client platforms (macOS, iOS/iPadOS, Windows, print, etc.) and related infrastructure management components, is looking for an enterprise engineer who specializes in Apple products.

This Technical Engineer, based in Irvine or LA, CA, will work with the other mac SMEs to plan the long term direction for the platform, evolve the offering and recommend appropriate solutions based on knowledge of the infrastructure and system software, and lead its implementation and production operation. This role also provides application support and communicates periodically with users on systems status, including system changes, problems, enhancements and potential impacts.

Responsibilities
Engineer solutions for Apple’s macOS product line, or mobile devices so they function in an enterprise that requires significant security and standardized, scalable, automated processes.
Create installation packages for automated deployments of software applications and updates for macOS & mobile environments.
Detailed knowledge of concepts, procedures and techniques for using and supporting macs, mobile devices, PCs, and printers in an enterprise environment. Streamline the configuration and deployment of new systems with expertise in Apple products in an enterprise.
Provide/guide with the highest level of troubleshooting needed, working with manufacturers, vendors, support staff and internal clients to resolve high-profile and system wide issues. Attention to detail and knowledge of appropriate communications in high pressure situations is a must.
Collect and document business requirements, then assist with building solutions to spec.
Design and deploy new products into a production environment, following standard industry and corporate processes.
Work across organizational boundaries to build a secure, reliable, adaptable environment which allows developers and creatives to work at their best.
Qualifications
Deep macOS knowledge, experienced in managing it in an enterprise with standard Client Management Platforms (e.g. JAMF Pro, SCCM, Workspace ONE (AirWatch), etc.)
Proven ability to communicate with a diverse audience and align all levels in the organization.
Strong background in macOS endpoint security, proxy & firewall, A/V & DLP (e.g. SEP, DRM, network technologies etc.) & Client Virtualization Technologies (e.g. VMWare Fusion, VMWare View, Apple Parallels)
Experience in endpoint automation (e.g. Advanced Shell and Python skills and use of APIs.)
Proven delivery of fully operationalized macOS projects into enterprise environment.
SparkCognition is an AI leader that offers business-critical solutions for customers in energy, oil and gas, manufacturing, finance, aerospace, defense, and security. A highly awarded company recognized for cutting-edge technology, SparkCognition develops AI-powered, cyber-physical software for the safety, security, reliability, and optimization of IT, OT, and the Industrial IoT.

SparkCognition is seeking a software engineer for the platform team. The developer will be part of an integrated team that includes data scientists and software engineers, working in tandem on the core infrastructure behind multiple products within SparkCognition. We are looking for a developer that has built out scalable, data intensive backends, with a need for Scala and functional programming experience.

NOTE: While it comes in handy to be familiar with the field, this is for a pure engineering role and no AI/Machine Learning experience required to apply.

Responsibilities
Develop, deliver and maintain a backend infrastructure that drives and powers data ingestion, authentication, data prep and model execution for all the products in SparkCognition.
Design and implement ways to deploy this infrastructure to on prem customers, SAAS environments, and custom solutions for new customers as needed.

Qualifications
Bachelor's degree in Computer Science, related field, or equivalent experience
At least 2-3 years of software development, with experience in Scala
Strong data structure, OOP and design principles is a must
Must have experience writing unit tests and integration tests
Familiarity with NoSQL databases (MongoDB, Redis, Cassandra, etc.)
Micro-services architectures and patterns
Experience managing the deployment and integration of technologies such as Hive, Flink, Pulsar, Alluxio and Presto
Experience delivering scalable infrastructure among rapidly changing requirements across multiple products
Experience designing and implementing an SDK consumed by multiple products
Proficiency with Agile development practices
Strong Experience with functional programming is a plus
Experience with container technologies (Docker, Kubernetes, etc.) is a huge plus
Proficiency with SQL and relational databases (i.e. PostgreSQL) is a huge plus
Cloud computing architectures (AWS, Azure, Google Cloud) is a huge plus

SparkCognition is an equal opportunity employer. All qualified a

Tilia is an emerging FinTech company that makes it possible for game companies to pay content creators for their work in-world. We are a small team of hard workers solving hard problems. We value work-life balance, have great senses of humor, trust each other, and embrace the habit of continual improvement. We would love to work with someone who shares those values.

Primary Functions

We are looking for a software developer to help us ship our performant, secure financial services platform regularly. Your knack for teamwork and clear communication will help our business thrive. If you love working with others to ship solutions, we want to hear from you.

What You’ll Do

Responsibilities
Collaborate with your team to design fast APIs for multiple clients.
Solve customer problems, often with software.
Participate in planning and design discussions, code reviews, stand-ups, and pair programming.
Ship tested code to production … a lot.

What You Need

Knowledge and Skills
Ability to work independently and collaboratively on/with remote teams
Excellent written and verbal communication skills
Experience using UNIX/Linux
Experience with Golang
Broad exposure to common web technologies
Experience using SQL and schemaless data stores
Proficiency in common scripting languages
6 years of experience in web software engineering
Bachelor’s degree in a technical field or equivalent experience

What We Use And Teach
Golang, Python, Javascript, React, MySQL
Docker, Drone, Jenkins, Amazon Web Services
Automated testing
Continuous Integration and Deployment
Microservices architecture

What Would Be Awesome
Having experience with compiled languages
Having experience working with financial systems

Experience & Education
6+ years of experience (or equivalent combination of education and experience) in software engineering, computer science, or software development.
Experience programming in Golang.
Experience programming using scripted languages such as Python
Exposure across the web stack: HTML, CSS, Javascript, Web frameworks both client and server, scripting languages, SQL databases, microservices, and RESTful APIs.
Walt Disney Animation Studios (WDAS) combines the best in artistry and storytelling with cutting-edge technology to bring wonderful new characters and adventures to the big screen for audiences around the world. Our Information Services team strives to design and develop solutions, as well as integrate 3rd party products, to optimize our internal business processes (e.g. Analytics, Production Management, HR, Training and Finance).

A Software Engineer in Information Services (IS) will be assigned to a variety of projects that will require them to work closely with our stakeholders to understand their workflows/requirements, participate in designing a viable solution, and positively influence others to implement the plan in a timely manner. The IS team focuses primarily on full-stack web technologies, but we strive for the best long term solution regardless of the technology. We are looking for someone who is adaptable, has a natural curiosity to continually improve their craft, and enjoys sharing relevant finds with the team.

Basic Qualifications
3+ years of expertise in front-end web development with a solid working knowledge of React, Django, and Python
Comfortable working with web technologies like JSON, RESTful APIs, GraphQL, Elasticsearch, etc
Experience working with SQL and NoSQL databases like PostgreSQL and MongoDB
Familiar with build and deployment technologies such as Jenkins and Docker
Actively participate in team discussions and challenge the status quo when appropriate
Set a positive example in regards to advancing technical competence and using healthy debate to resolve differences and build consensus
Deep partnership and empathy with stakeholders to gain understanding of workflows and requirements
Deliver detailed updates and statuses on specific bugs, features, or tasks within a project.

Preferred Qualifications

Experience with one or more of these are a bonus
Experience building a data pipeline using a cloud-native infrastructure
Experience with async programming models (events, callbacks, promises, async/await)
Experience with analytical tools like Tableau, R/R Studio
Experience with developing for and deploying in cloud-native infrastructure like AWS, GCP, etc
Experience with securing web applications and services with modern authentication and authorization principles such as SSO and OAuth 2.0
Experience with designing scalable solutions for data science and analytic needs

Required Education
Backend engineers at Woven use Python daily and work on backend systems such as calendar sync, search backend and realtime notifications as well as on APIs exposing various Woven functionalities. The small team size means every engineer at Woven owns a large part of the powerful, collaborative and smart calendar we are building.

This position is full-time and based in our Mountain View, CA office.


What you will do 

--Work with other engineers and the product team to ideate, design and develop backend systems and APIs for all Woven apps, usually using Python. 

--Analyze and improve the quality, efficiency, scalability, stability and security of Woven’s existing infrastructure, backend systems and APIs. 

--Participate in software architecture discussions and review the code of other engineers. 

--Probably many other things; we are a small, growing startup after all!

Who you are 

--BSc or MSc degree in Computer Science or equivalent technical experience. 

--3+ years hands-on experience developing backend for multi-tiered web applications; 5+ years for senior roles. 

--Excellent command of Python (or equivalent Go, Ruby or PHP experience and a strong desire to learn Python quickly). 

--Excellent command of relational databases and SQL.

Nice to have 

--Hands-on experience in distributed systems is a big plus. 

-- Hands-on experience with Google Cloud Platform, Redis and Elasticsearch is a big plus. 

--Hands-on experience with Google G Suite and/or Microsoft Office 365 APIs is a plus. 

--Practical understanding of machine intelligence (AI/ML/NLP) is a plus.

STAR Labs (Samsung Technology & Advanced Research Labs) is headed by Pranav Mistry with a mission to undertake independent initiatives to create end-to-end new businesses and expand growth areas for Samsung. At STAR Labs, we are building new immersive and intelligent services that is making science fiction a reality. STAR Labs consists of best of the best from domains such as computer science, business strategy, engineering, design; and diverse set of experiences from places like MIT, Stanford, Oxford, CMU, Nasa, Google, Microsoft and many more.

The team builds upon their outstanding track record of creating products that have real-world impact at global scale. We are rapidly expanding and is looking for the best to join and help us build foundation for our next magical technology stack. We value our differences and are excited to learn what you can add to STAR Labs.

Responsibilities
Identify data management patterns and workflows to effectively scale data acquisition and processing
Work closely with the team across product, design, product, infrastructure, strategy and engineering to identify areas of improvement
Suggest improvements to tools and techniques that help scale operations in the team
Mentor, learn and share knowledge with others along the way
Make impact and have fun


Requirements
Expert status in analyzing extremely large, complex, multi-dimensional data sets with a variety of tools
Ensure data quality throughout all stages of acquisition and processing, including data sourcing/collection, ground truth generation, normalization and transformation.
Develop and implement data debugging and health tools that provide actionable insight, and help the team to extract the most value from data
Experience in analyzing data to identify gaps and inconsistencies. Develop and architect ML techniques based on clustering, regression, unsupervised learning to gain efficiency in data management pipeline
MS or PhD degree in applied mathematics, statistics, computer science, data science or related field.
Experience coding in either Python, Perl, Java, C++.
Following skills are a major plus:
Experience querying large databases
Experience with databases (e.g. SQL, Graph Databases and others)
Application deployment using AWS, Virtual Machines, or Docker
Big data technologies such as Hadoop, MapReduce, Hive, Pig


